
                            MONTREAL

                        From 1535 to 1914

                          BIOGRAPHICAL


                           VOLUME III

               THE S. J. CLARKE PUBLISHING COMPANY

                 MONTREAL   VANCOUVER   CHICAGO

                              1914

[Illustration: RICHARD B. ANGUS]




BIOGRAPHICAL


RICHARD BLADWORTH ANGUS.

“No man in Montreal and very few in Canada have had a fuller,
riper and more successful career than ‘the man of peace,’ as
he is known in business circles.” So writes the Toronto Globe
of Richard Bladworth Angus, and there is little to add that
would describe the man more accurately. A purposeful man, a
deep thinker, a man of the highest principles, Mr. Angus is
representative of the empire builders of Canada. Beginning his
career in a humble station, he has climbed the ladder of success
rung by rung until he reached the ranks of men like the late
Lord Strathcona, and the present Lord Mount Stephen, with whom
he labored in building the most important railroad lines in the
Dominion and with whom he stood for all that which has made
Canada the great empire that it is today. Not only has Mr. Angus
been prominent as a builder and financier of great rail lines,
but he has given of his time and means toward the establishment
of great institutions to care for the sick, to bring education to
all those who may seek it, to promote and disseminate a thorough
understanding of art--in short, to promote the intellectual as
well as the material welfare of that most enterprising of all
British peoples--the Canadian nation.

Richard B. Angus was born in Bathgate, Scotland, May 28, 1831,
and educated there. While in his native country he was employed
by the Manchester & Liverpool Bank for some time and in 1857
entered the offices of the Bank of Montreal in Canada. To the
present generation the name of R. B. Angus has been rightly
considered a synonym for the financial activity instituted by the
Bank of Montreal, for he has been connected with that institution
since 1857, having come out from Scotland to accept a position in
the bank in which at a later date he was to be for many years the
guiding hand. His keen mind, his adaptability to new conditions,
his shrewdness and his careful weighing of important questions
assured him of quick promotion and four years after he became
connected with the institution he was placed in charge of the
Chicago agency, in 1861 and in 1863 was agent for the bank in New
York.

During his sojourn in Chicago Mr. Angus became acquainted with
the spirit of the great west and what it was hoped might be
accomplished there. He saw the states of Illinois and Iowa
budding forth from prairie to splendidly developed communities
and reasoning by analogy he recognized what the future had in
store for the Canadian west following the construction of the
Canadian Pacific Railway. The splendid financial standing of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company today is also in a measure due
to the wisdom of this man, whom no doubt Sir Thomas Shaughnessy
considers one of his wisest counsellors.

In 1864 Mr. Angus returned to Montreal to become second assistant
manager of the Bank of Montreal, was later appointed assistant
manager and became manager in 1868. In 1869, or two years after
the union of the British North American colonies, Mr. Angus was
appointed general manager of the Bank of Montreal, a position
which he held until November 1, 1879. It is said that during
these ten years his advice was sought many times by the different
finance ministers of the Dominion not only as regards federal
loans but also concerning the general financial policy of the
country. Although a native of Scotland, where free trade exists,
Mr. Angus looked with favor upon the protectionist program,
which triumphed in Canada on the 18th of September, 1878. He
saw therein a means whereby the Dominion could become a great
manufacturing country, and he has lived long enough to see the
splendid fruition of that policy.

After his ten years’ tenure of office as general manager of
the Bank of Montreal Mr. Angus was called to another sphere of
usefulness. When several prominent men connected with the Bank of
Montreal bought out the Dutch interests in what was then called
the St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Railway, those interested,
realizing the ability of Mr. Angus as a financier and organizer,
asked him to leave the bank and become the representative of
their interests in St. Paul. Accepting the management of the
railway, his great success during the two years of his residence
in the American northwest has become a part of the history not
only of the American but also of the Canadian northwest. Mr.
Angus was one of the first promoters of the Canadian Pacific
Railway. He was among the earliest to recognize the stupendous
success which would attend the project if there was carried out
an enlightened policy of settlement and industrial expansion.
A syndicate was formed, with Mr. George Stephen, later Lord
Mount Stephen, and Mr. Donald A. Smith, later Lord Strathcona,
as its leading spirits. Mr. Angus was one of the original
body and he has remained in connection with the incorporated
company ever since as one of its directors. He advised upon the
strategic points where the chief entrenchments of the first
transcontinental road should be laid out and he pointed out the
spots where the Bank of Montreal could most effectively plant
its branches. This policy of his had a great deal to do with
the expansion which has brought the capitalization of the Bank
of Montreal and the Canadian Pacific Railway up to the present
colossal figures.

As general manager of the Bank of Montreal Mr. Angus served
under four presidents, namely, T. B. Anderson, E. H. King, David
Torrance and George Stephen, now Lord Mount Stephen, and he and
the latter are the only ones of the number yet living. He also
sat as director with Lord Strathcona and Sir George A. Drummond,
succeeding the latter to the presidency of the bank July 22,
1910. All admit that no one of that galaxy of financiers who have
year after year sat at the historic round table ever rendered
greater service to the institution than R. B. Angus.

At an age when most men throw off official cares and
responsibilities to enjoy the leisure which prosperity has
brought them Mr. Angus in his octogenarian prime took up as
cheerfully as would a man of forty the principal position in
Canada’s foremost financial institution. In November, 1913, on
account of advancing years and a desire to be relieved of all
financial burdens of a public character, Mr. Angus resigned the
presidency of the Bank of Montreal, but remains a member of the
board and continues to give the institution the benefit of his
ripe, wide and valuable experience.

That worth hath its reward is evident in Mr. Angus’ career, who
is rated today as one of the richest men in Montreal. However,
he seems to consider himself more in the light of a steward of
his vast property interests, for he freely and liberally has
given of his means and made handsome contributions to numerous
institutions. Among these is the Montreal Art Association, of
which he was formerly president and to which he gave money and
several valuable paintings. He also supported McGill University
with a considerable sum and gave to the Alexandra Contagious
Diseases Hospital of Montreal, of which he is a governor and
was a founder. He was president of the Royal Victoria Hospital,
which institution he also has liberally supported, and is a
vice president of the Royal Victorian Order of Nurses. The
Charity Organization Society, of which he is a director, has
also benefited in a material way and by his timely advice. Mr.
Angus was also a governor of the Montreal General Hospital. An
honor to his race and one of the foremost representatives among
Scotchmen in Canada, he served several times as president of the
St. Andrew’s Society of Montreal. Mr. Angus was governor of the
Fraser Institute Free Public Library and is an honorary member of
the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society of Montreal.

Among commercial and financial institutions with which he has
been or is connected are the Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
the Laurentide Paper Company, the Dominion Coal Company, the
Dominion Iron & Steel Company, the Dominion Bridge Company, the
Royal Trust Company, the Grand Falls Power Company, the Pacific
Coal Company, the Canadian Salt Company, the Northwest Land
Company and the London & Lancashire Life Assurance Company.

Mr. Angus has always taken a deep interest in public institutions
and was one of the chief promoters of the board of control in
Montreal, which was founded in 1909. He has ever placed his
services at the disposal of such affairs as have made for a
greater and better Canada. In 1910 knighthood was offered to him,
but he declined the honor.

Among the clubs of which Mr. Angus is a member are: the St.
James, of which he was formerly chairman; the Mount Royal, of
which he was a founder and of which he has served as president;
the Montreal Jockey; the Auto and Aero Club; the Forest and
Stream Club; and the Winter Club. He also is a member of the
Rideau Club of Ottawa, the Toronto Club, the York Club of Toronto
and the Manitoba Club of Winnipeg.

On June 13, 1857, Angus was married to Miss Mary Anne Daniels,
who died March 13, 1913. To them were born three sons and six
daughters, two of the latter being deceased.

In religious matters Mr. Angus adheres to the stern faith of his
fathers, being a Presbyterian. It may be said of him that in all
fields in which he has exerted his activities he has excelled.
Quiet in demeanor, he is purposeful and unconsciously exerts an
influence which makes for domination. That this domination is
always used to good purpose and for the benefit of his country
and its people stands to his high credit. Sir Sandford Fleming
paid him high compliment as a banker in the words that he is
a man who “in every way is a credit to the great institution
over which he so worthily presides,” and the Montreal Star
characterizes him as “one of Canada’s prominent and most highly
respected financiers.” Mr. Angus is a true Scotchman, a truer
Canadian, but best of all--a man worthy of the name.


LEONIDAS VILLENEUVE.

From a comparatively humble position in business circles Leonidas
Villeneuve advanced until he ranked with the millionaire
merchants of Montreal and throughout his entire career his record
was such as any man might be proud to possess, bringing to him
the respect of colleagues and contemporaries. The record of his
career, showing the steps in his orderly progression, may serve
as a source of inspiration and encouragement to others and in
this biography finds its chief motive and value.

Mr. Villeneuve was born in Terrebonne county, at Ste. Anne des
Plaines, a son of Joachim Villeneuve, who was a farmer there. His
boyhood and youth were uneventfully passed, but when twenty years
of age he determined to try his fortune in the commercial field.
He was attracted to the lumber business and, believing that he
would find it congenial and profitable, he established a small
lumberyard north of Mount Royal Avenue, in the ownership and
conduct of which he was first associated with the late Senator J.
O. Villeneuve. Gradually he advanced toward the goal of success,
his business growing with the development of the district. He
remained at its head until his death, eventually conducting an
extensive business under the name of the L. Villeneuve Company.
This brought him substantial returns and his fortune also arose
through his wise and judicious investments in real estate. From
time to time he added to his holdings and, when there was a
real-estate boom in the district, he had extensive holdings, a
portion of which he sold, realizing therefrom a handsome fortune.

Mr. Villeneuve was a prominent figure in local circles in
connection with the growth and progress of his section. When the
district north of Mount Royal Avenue gradually developed from
a sparsely settled region into a fast growing town he was one
of the leading spirits in planning roadways, parks and public
improvements. To him in great measure it is due that, with its
wide streets and well built homes, Laurier ward is among the most
attractive in this city. He was for twenty years associated with
the municipal life of Ville St. Louis, first serving as alderman
and afterward for three terms as mayor.

In politics Mr. Villeneuve was a stalwart conservative, but while
working actively in the party and doing everything in his power
to promote its growth and secure its success, he could never be
tempted to try his fortune in either the federal or provincial
fields, although he was requested on many occasions to carry the
party banner. He was universally respected for his unswerving
business honesty and uprightness, and upon these qualities as a
foundation he builded his success, which placed him among the
leaders in his particular line in eastern Canada. His sound
judgment enabled him to correctly value those things which go to
make up life’s contacts and experiences. His opinions were sound,
his enterprise unfaltering and his activities were of a character
that contributed to the public welfare as well as to individual
success. Mr. Villeneuve was a member of the Roman Catholic
church, and took a great deal of interest in church affairs.

[Illustration: LEONIDAS VILLENEUVE]

Mr. Villeneuve was married twice. His first wife was Malvina
Joyal, a sister of Dr. Joyal, of Montreal, and to them was born
a son, J. Arthur, who was educated in Montreal and traveled
extensively with his father in Europe. He married Miss Yvonne
Lariviere, of Montreal, and has a son, Jean Leonidas, born
July 11, 1913. J. Arthur Villeneuve is vice president of the
L. Villeneuve Company and of the Eagle Lumber Company and is a
worthy successor of his father in connection with the lumber
industry of the country. For his second wife Leonidas Villeneuve
chose Dame Exilda Bergeron, who also survives. His life of
intense and intelligently directed activity brought him success
and, moreover, he always followed constructive methods in his
business career, so that his path was never strewn with the wreck
of other men’s fortunes.


HENRY R. GRAY.

Tangible evidence of the public spirit of Henry R. Gray is found
in his service as chairman of the board of health and the radical
and effective measures which he took in preventing the spread of
a small-pox epidemic. He did equally efficient work in promoting
sanitary conditions in Montreal along various lines and at the
same time he occupied a prominent position as a representative
of the pharmaceutical profession. He was born December 30, 1838,
in Boston, Lincolnshire, England, and pursued his education at
Standard Hill, Nottingham, the head master of the school being
William Goodacre, the well known author of several standard
educational works. He was afterward articled for five years to
William March, chemist and apothecary, at Newark, England, and
subsequently pursued a course of lectures on chemistry under the
celebrated Roscoe in Manchester.

Coming to Canada when twenty-one years of age, Mr. Gray
established his business in Montreal in 1859 and for several
years devoted his attention to the study of sanitary science
and particularly to the question of the sanitation of cities.
He was connected with every movement to improve the sanitary
condition of Montreal and his labors were of far-reaching
benefit. He became one of the originators of the Pharmaceutical
Association of the province, of which he was elected secretary
and later treasurer and vice president. He was next called to
the presidency, serving for three consecutive years and also as
a member of the board of examiners. He became one of the charter
members of the Montreal College of Pharmacy and for two years was
its president.

In 1884 he was elected alderman of the St. Lawrence ward and soon
afterward was unanimously chosen by the city council as chairman
of the local board of health, serving in that difficult position
during the whole of the disastrous epidemic of small-pox which
devastated the city and province in 1885 and 1886. When the
disease broke out and the death rate amounted to twenty-five per
day, there was little civic organization to prevent the spread
of disease or further the promotion of sanitary conditions.
Vaccination was opposed, but Mr. Gray organized a vigorous
campaign to stamp out the disease and obtained the passage of
by-laws insisting on free and compulsory vaccination. He also
organized a civic hospital and insisted on all the small-pox
patients being sent to the isolation hospital. Through this and
other emergency methods he allayed the general fear and stamped
out the disease. It was in that year that he succeeded in getting
a by-law through the city council requiring all household refuse
to be cremated, and shortly afterward crematories were erected
and a contract for five years’ collection and cremation given out.

After having served a three years’ term as alderman Mr. Gray
declined reelection. He was appointed by the government a justice
of the peace and a member of the council of public instruction
for the province of Quebec and was elected to represent it on
the corporation of the polytechnic school of this city. He was
likewise a life governor of the Montreal General Hospital and
the Notre Dame Hospital. When the public health act passed the
legislature, shortly after the small-pox epidemic, Mr. Gray, who
in addition to his aldermanic duties had been a member of the old
central board of health for the province, was appointed a member
of the new provincial board of health then created and remained a
member until his death. In 1885 he was elected membre honoraire
de la Société d’Hygiène Française of Paris, France. After his
retirement from the city council he was requested by a number
of leading citizens of all parties and creeds to accept the
nomination of mayor, but owing to business reasons he was obliged
to decline.

Mr. Gray married Miss Catherine Margaret McGale, the youngest
daughter of the late Dr. Bernard McGale, who was a member of
the army medical staff. Mr. Gray died February 18, 1908, and
is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son, Dr. H. R.
Dunstan Gray. The memory of his well spent life is cherished by
all who were his contemporaries and his colleagues, and the worth
of his work is recognized by all who know aught of the history of
Montreal.


JAMES JOHNSTON.

Throughout an active, commercial career James Johnston was
engaged in importing and dealing in English and foreign dry
goods, in which connection he built up an enterprise of extensive
and gratifying proportions, his becoming one of the leading
commercial houses of Montreal. He was born March 20, 1849, a son
of James and Mary (Burns) Johnston, both of whom were natives
of Scotland, who, coming to the new world in early life, were
married in Montreal. The father, who was born in 1819, passed
away in this city on the 27th of May, 1882.

Spending his youthful days under the parental roof, James
Johnston pursued his education in the schools of Montreal and
Quebec and, entering business circles, he became connected with
the firm of James Johnston & Company, importers of and dealers in
dry goods of English and foreign manufacture, of which his father
was the head. After the death of his father he became head of the
business, devoting his entire attention to the development of a
trade which grew to large and gratifying proportions, making his
one of the leading dry-goods establishments in the city. Since
his demise the store has been sold and is now conducted under the
firm style of W. R. Brock Company, Ltd.

Mr. Johnston was married in Montreal, in 1876, to Miss Agnes
Grant Robertson, a daughter of Andrew Robertson, who was a
prominent resident of this city. By this marriage there were
eight children of whom seven are living. The family circle was
broken by the hand of death when on the 14th of July, 1899,
James Johnston was called to his final rest. His interests and
activities, aside from business, are indicated by the fact that
he held membership in the St. James Club, the Metropolitan
Club, the Hunt Club, the Forest and Stream Club, and St.
Paul’s Presbyterian church. He was always actuated by high and
manly principles and worthy motives, and he left to his family
the priceless heritage of an untarnished name as well as the
substantial reward of his business enterprise and sagacity.


MICHAEL JAMES WALSH.

Michael James Walsh is prominent along various lines of activity
in Montreal, where he is widely known as a successful insurance
broker but has also actively participated in an important way in
political and governmental affairs and is moreover widely known
in fraternal circles. Of good Irish stock, he has brought the
sturdiness of his ancestors to the task at hand and has attained
a success which entitles him to consideration as one of the
substantial men of his community and a power for progress and
improvement in the political field.

A native of Montreal, Michael James Walsh was born on the
2d of September, 1858, a son of Mark and Catherine (Nolan)
Walsh, both natives of County Wexford, Ireland. The father was
prominent as a contractor and everywhere in this city respected
as a successful business man. Michael J. Walsh received his
education at St. Ann’s parish, Christian Brothers School, and
upon discontinuing his lessons became connected with the Grand
Trunk and Canadian Pacific Railways, remaining for about ten
years in their employ in their store departments. He then set
out independently, becoming an insurance broker, and by native
shrewdness and ability to understand commercial conditions has
succeeded in building up a business which ranks him among the
foremost men in his line in Montreal. When his private affairs
permitted him to devote some of his time to the public weal
he entered politics with the same zest as he displayed in his
private business affairs and as a result was elected alderman of
the St. Ann’s ward on February 1, 1902, continuing in that office
for four years or until February 1, 1906, and doing valuable work
in promoting measures which have been of far-reaching benefit
to the city. On November 25, 1904, he was also elected a member
of the Quebec provincial legislature and on December 28, 1908,
reelected to that office, continuing therein until May 15, 1912.
His legislative career has been one of success and his record has
been so clear that his constituents may well be proud of their
representative. He has done much in supporting valuable bills,
especially those undertaken in the interest of his constituents,
and has ever been active in committee rooms and on the floor of
the house in sustaining or promoting constructive legislation.
His political position is that of a liberal, and he always has
been a stanch supporter of that grand man of the liberal party,
Sir Wilfrid Laurier.

On October 9, 1882, at Montreal, in St. Henry parish church, Mr.
Walsh was married to Mary Jane Barry, a daughter of David Barry,
mechanical superintendent of the Canada Sugar Refinery, and Mary
O’Leary, both natives of County Cork, Ireland. Mr. and Mrs. Walsh
became the parents of two sons. Joseph Christopher Barry Walsh,
B. A., B. C. L., is a well known notary public. The other son
born to the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Walsh is David Robert Barry
Walsh, who graduated from Loyola College and is now successfully
engaged in the insurance business, being inspector for the Royal
Exchange Association. Both sons are young men of excellent habits
and qualifications.

As the years have passed Mr. Walsh has become connected with
a number of outside interests and is now a director in the
People’s Mutual Building Society and for many years has been a
member of the Montreal Board of Trade, doing in that connection
important work in promoting commercial expansion. Fraternally he
is very prominent and has held high offices in the Knights of
Columbus, the Catholic Order of Foresters, the Catholic Mutual
Benefit Association, the Canadian Order of Foresters, the Royal
Guardians, the Ancient Order of Hibernians and in St. Patrick’s
Society. A man of varied and important interests, Mr. Walsh has
made an honorable record in business as well as in municipal
and provincial politics and enjoys the full confidence of the
best classes of population. In him there is strongly developed
the quality of loyalty, and it is his devotion to a cause which
has led him into the important relations with which he is now
connected. He may justly be classed with Montreal’s leading
citizens, and the position which he has attained is the more
creditable as it has been brought about entirely by his own
efforts.


JAMES BELL, M. D.

Notable service in the field of abdominal surgery won for Dr.
James Bell an international reputation. His broad study and
research made him a scientist of renown and his opinions were
largely accepted as authority by the profession which recognized
him not only as an eminent surgeon, but equally capable educator.
He was born at North Gower, Ontario, in 1852, and after acquiring
his early education in local schools and by private tuition,
he entered McGill University and was graduated as Holmes’ gold
medallist in 1877, a fact indicative of the excellent work which
he had done in his student days. He was immediately appointed
house surgeon in the Montreal General Hospital, which position
he held until 1882, gaining that broad practical experience and
knowledge which only hospital practice can bring. In 1880 he
became medical superintendent of the Montreal General Hospital
and in 1885 was appointed to the position of assistant surgeon,
followed by appointment as surgeon a year later. He filled
the position with distinction for eight years and then became
surgeon of the new Royal Victoria Hospital in 1894, remaining
in that connection until his demise. As the years passed his
skill and ability constantly increased and developed and his
reputation spread abroad until he was acknowledged not only one
of the eminent surgeons of Canada, but also, by reason of his
specialty in abdominal work, as one of the most distinguished
representatives of the profession on the American continent. He
became just as widely known in connection with surgical work for
the treatment of gall stones and kidney diseases. In addition
to his other hospital service he was consulting surgeon of the
Children’s Hospital. After going to Victoria Hospital he remained
a consulting surgeon of the Montreal General Hospital and also
acted in a similar capacity at the Maternity Hospital.

[Illustration: DR. JAMES BELL]

His connection with McGill University was equally brilliant,
for through many years he was one of its able educators in the
medical department. In 1888 he was appointed associate professor
of clinical surgery. In 1890 he was made assistant professor of
surgery and clinical surgery; in 1895, professor of clinical
surgery, and in 1907, professor of surgery and clinical surgery.
He held membership in the American Surgical Association and the
Canadian Surgical Association, and he served as surgeon major
in charge of the field hospital corps in the Riel rebellion,
receiving a medal for his services, while between 1880 and 1888,
he was surgeon to the Sixth Battalion of Fusiliers. He was
the author of various valuable papers, including one entitled
Tubercular Family History, and his contributions to the press
have ever been eagerly received. He was the author of the chapter
on Surgical Diseases and Wounds of the Kidneys and Ureters
in American Practice of Surgery as well as numerous valuable
treatises on the kidneys. He was a member of the Genito-Urinary
branch of the American Medical Association in which he
represented the Canadian Medical Association. As a diagnostician
he had few equals and he possessed a medical technique that was
marvelous. One of his strongest traits of character was his utter
fearlessness. He spoke his own mind and was seldom misunderstood.
He never catered to cheaply acquired popularity or public opinion
and always had the courage of his convictions. He spoke what he
thought to be the truth no matter who it opposed or offended.
He thoroughly detested sham or deceit and was self-contained,
quiet and self-reliant in connection with all of his professional
service.

Dr. Bell was married in June, 1889, to Miss Edith Mary Arnton,
the eldest daughter of the late John J. Arnton, of Montreal, and
they had one son, James Stuart Ethelwyn Wallace, who was born
February 15, 1899, and in accordance with the wish of his father
is preparing for the medical course at McGill. Dr. Bell was a
member of a number of the leading clubs, including St. James, the
Montreal Jockey, the Mount Royal and the University Clubs. He was
for more than twenty years one of the enthusiastic members of the
Montreal Hunt Club and for many years followed the hounds. He
greatly enjoyed outdoor life, much more than so-called society
and said with Byron,

  “I love not man the less but nature more.”

He was fond of hunting and fishing and it was his custom each
year to hunt big game in New Brunswick where he was often a guest
at August Belmont’s private shooting preserve. Dr. Bell was also
a member of the Chapleau Club in the Laurentians where he went
for his fishing. His country home, Saraguay, was his residence
during four months in the year for more than eighteen years. Here
he maintained a fine breeding establishment of driving and saddle
horses and was able to gratify the great pleasure his excellent
stock afforded him, for he was a lover of a good horse.

No man ever more fully, however, recognized the duties and
obligations of the profession or more conscientiously met them.
The regard entertained for him by his professional brethren is
indicated in the fact that Dr. C. E. Church termed him “the
ablest surgeon in America,” while Dr. T. G. Roddick said, “the
death of Dr. James Bell is a distinct loss to the medical and
surgical profession. He was a man of marked ability, with
conscientious devotion to his work, which earned him the respect
of his fellows, as well as success amongst his patients. And
he was not only respected by the profession throughout the
country, but loved by his friends.” In comment upon his death the
Montreal Gazette wrote, “One of the men who have done much for
the advancement of the medical profession in Canada passed away
yesterday when Dr. James Bell, in the ripe fullness of a useful
career, was carried off by appendicitis. It was by a curious
irony of fate that Dr. Bell died most unexpectedly at the Royal
Victoria Hospital, in whose wards still lay many upon whom he had
operated, and whose lives he had probably saved by his skill.
For many years Dr. Bell had been recognized as one of Canada’s
leading surgeons, in fact one of the greatest surgeons in
abdominal work on this continent and his services were in great
demand, not only in Montreal, but wherever the work of a skillful
scientist whose immediate judgment and power might be efficacious
to save human life, was needed. Day by day he had been working in
the operating room of the Royal Victoria Hospital and the sick
rooms of patients, in circumstances where a single mistake might
mean loss of life. The strain was much greater than ordinary
people could have imagined. He was one of those men who devoted
themselves to their work so well and performed it so efficiently
that there was no need to fight for prominence. His work was such
that it inevitably grew. As his ability became known his services
became more in demand and in a quiet and conscientious way he
gradually became one of the recognized surgical authorities of
his time and one of the busiest. Not only in Montreal but in many
parts of Canada he was called upon wherever there was a stern
fight against death, and frequently he was called to exercise
his skill even farther afield in the United States. Those who
knew him as either surgeon or as friend will remember him as one
who knew his work and did it well, without thought of public
recognition.”

Dr. Bell was actively engaged in professional duties almost
to the closing hours of his life. On the last day he visited
Victoria Hospital he performed an operation in the forenoon. In
the evening of the same day he was taken ill and the end came
a few days later. The board of governors of the Royal Victoria
Hospital caused to be made a bronze bust of Dr. Bell which was
placed in the main hall of that hospital. The significance of
this action is better understood when it is known that but one
other bust is there shown--that of Queen Victoria.


JOSEPH OVIDE GRAVEL.

Joseph Ovide Gravel, for many years manager and executor of the
John Pratt estate in Montreal and prominently connected with
other important corporate and business interests of the city, was
born here in 1839. He acquired his education in the commercial
schools of the city and in 1854 began a business career which
brought him constantly increasing prominence and prosperity.
From that date until 1863 he was connected with the firm of
Benning & Barsalou and was then made secretary-treasurer of the
Canadian Rubber Company, taking an active part in the affairs of
that concern until 1899. He was later a director in the Canadian
Linseed Oil Mills, a trustee of the Guardian Assurance Company,
president of the Sincennes-McNaughton line and of the Dominion
Oil Cloth Company. He became known as a reliable, forceful and
discriminating business man, one who always carried forward to
successful completion whatever he undertook, and he made his
ability and insight the basis of a substantial and well deserved
success. He married Aurelie La Rocque. His son, C. E. Gravel, is
now in charge of the Pratt estate and is ably carrying forward
his father’s work in its management.


JOSEPH LOUIS ARCHAMBAULT.

Joseph Louis Archambault, of Montreal, whose reputation as a
distinguished and able lawyer has made him well known throughout
the province and who is now filling the position of city
attorney, was born at Varennes, June 19, 1849, a son of the late
J. N. A. and Aurelie (Mongeau) Archambault. The father, who was
“a patriot of 1837,” became president of the provincial board of
notaries in Quebec and was a distinguished representative of his
profession. The son supplemented his early education by study
in the College of St. Hyacinthe and in broad literary training
laid the foundation upon which he has built the superstructure
of professional knowledge. He pursued his law studies under the
direction of the late Sir George Cartier and at the same time
followed the law course in McGill University, which conferred
upon him the B. C. L. degree in 1871. The same year he entered
upon active practice as an advocate and has since remained
a member of the Montreal bar, although his growing powers
and capabilities have won him place among the leaders of the
profession in the province. He was created a king’s counsel
by the Marquis of Lansdowne in 1887 and became a member of
the council of the bar in 1889. For some years he filled the
position of crown prosecutor for the district of Montreal and has
frequently pleaded before the judicial committee of the privy
council in England, having charge of important cases from Canada.
He became city attorney of Montreal in 1898 and in the discharge
of his official duties has won high honors and encomiums. He has
always enjoyed a large private practice and in following his
profession has been associated successively as law partner with
Sir J. A. Chapleau, Q. C., the Hon. J. A. Mousseau, Q. C. and the
Hon. W. W. Linch, Q. C. He has written quite extensively on legal
subjects for the newspaper and magazine press and is the author
of a number of published volumes, including: Jacques Cartier,
an Historical Drama (1879); Etude Legale sur l’Université Laval
à Montreal (1880); Institutions Municipales (1887); Le Barreau
Canadien au Conseil Privé (1889); Généalogie de la Famille
Archambault, 1620-1890 (1891); La Bourgeoisie au Canada, Two
Lectures (1894); The Criminal Forum in Canada (1895); and Etude
de Moeurs Judiciares (1897). His opinions upon involved legal
questions are largely accepted as authority by the profession
and the public. He served as batonnier or president of the
Montreal bar in 1912 and 1913. In addition to his law practice he
is one of the directors of the Rolland Paper Company.

Mr. Archambault was married in Montreal in June, 1873, to Miss
Ernestine, the eldest daughter of the late Senator Rolland,
of Montreal. In religious faith Mr. and Mrs. Archambault are
Catholics, and his political belief is that of the conservative
party. He belongs to the Canadian Club and those who meet him
socially find him an entertaining, genial and cultured gentleman
whose ways are those of refinement and whose word no man can
question. The Montreal Star has said of him: “His career has
been marked with continuous success and great devotion to the
legal profession.” His prominence is the logical outcome of well
developed talents and powers and he is justly accounted today one
of the leaders of the provincial bar.


JOHN CLEMENT NEUFVILLE BADGLEY.

The Badgley family is one of the old and prominent families of
Montreal, their connection with the city’s history dating back to
1785.

Four generations of this family have been prominently identified
with the city’s business and professional interests. John C. N.
Badgley, active in business circles for many years, remained a
resident of this city from his birth on December 7, 1856, until
his death on March 7, 1906.

He was a son of the Hon. William Badgley, D. C. L., one of the
eminent representatives of the judiciary of the province, and a
nephew of Dr. Francis Badgley, one of the most prominent members
of the medical profession of his day and an early member of the
McGill College faculty. Dr. Badgley died in England where he
resided the latter years of his life.

Hon. William Badgley, whose entire life was spent in Montreal,
was born in this city, March 27, 1801, his parents being Francis
and Elizabeth (Lilly) Badgley. The father, a representative of
an old Derbyshire family, was born in London and for years was a
well known Montreal merchant. He was likewise a recognized leader
in political circles and represented his city in the provincial
parliament from 1801 until 1805. The father of the Hon. William
Badgley, Francis Badgley, was one of the early settlers of
Montreal, arriving in 1785. Francis Badgley became one of the
prominent fur merchants in Montreal and married Elizabeth Lilly,
daughter of John Lilly.

William Badgley, after pursuing his more specifically literary
education with the Rev. Alexander Skakel, studied law in Montreal
and was admitted to the bar in November, 1823. He entered at
once upon active and successful practice, was created queen’s
counsellor in 1847 and received the honorary degree of Doctor
of Civil Law from McGill University in 1843. For about twenty
years he practised his profession in Montreal and gained
distinction as a barrister. He was also the author of a work
called Remarks on Registrar’s Office which was published in
1837. In 1840 he was called to public life in his appointment
as commissioner of bankrupts, in which capacity he served until
1844, when he was appointed circuit judge. He was also secretary
of the Constitutional Association which aided in the reunion
of the Canadas in 1841 and two or three years before that act
was consummated he was one of the delegates sent to England to
further the movement. He continued upon the bench as circuit
judge until 1847 and then resumed the private practice of law.
Judicial honors, however, were again conferred upon him when
on the 27th of January, 1855, he was appointed puisne judge of
the superior court of Lower Canada, so continuing until the
1st of September, 1862, when he was transferred to the court
of queen’s bench as temporary assistant judge. Later he was
appointed puisne judge of that court on the 17th of August, 1866,
and after presiding over its proceedings for eight years was
retired on a pension in June, 1874, because of partial deafness.
Devotedly attached to his profession, systematic and methodical
in habit, sober and discreet in judgment, calm in temper,
diligent in research, conscientious in the discharge of every
duty, courteous and kindly in demeanor and inflexibly just on all
occasions, these qualities enabled his honor, William Badgley,
to take first rank among those who have held high judicial
offices in the province. His reported opinions are monuments to
his profound legal learning and superior ability. They show a
thorough mastery of the questions involved, a rare simplicity of
style and a remarkable terseness and clearness in the statement
of the principles upon which the opinions rest. His name is
also interwoven with the history of legislation for he sat for
Missisquoi in the Canadian assembly from 1844 until 1851, and
for the city of Montreal from the latter date until the general
election in 1854. He was a member of the executive council and
attorney general for Lower Canada from April 23, 1847, to March
10, 1848. He always gave stanch allegiance to the conservative
party, feeling that in its principles lay the strongest elements
of good government. His fraternal connections were with the
Masons, and he was district and provincial grand master for
England from December, 1849, until his demise.

With him passed away one of the links which have bound the
bustling men of middle age today with a generation of which
the youth of today know but very little, of men more proud and
precise in their manners than we are, and whose courtesy and
politeness was a part of their daily life. The loss of their
influence and example is no small one.

In 1834, in London, England, Judge Badgley was married to Miss
Elizabeth Taylor, the eldest daughter of Lieutenant Colonel J. W.
Taylor of the Twentieth Regiment B. N. T. Six children were born
to this marriage; the wife and mother passed away in 1874.

John C. N. Badgley, youngest son of the Hon. William Badgley,
pursued his education in Montreal high school and McGill
University after spending some time as a student at Port
Hope. When a young man he engaged in the coal business and
was connected with that department of commercial activity in
Montreal throughout his entire life. He became one of the active
business men of this city, his energy and enterprise leading him
into important, commercial relations and winning for him a high
standing as a business man and citizen.

He married Miss Mary E. Badgley, a daughter of Francis H. and
Margaret (Drummond) Badgley of Ottawa.

John C. N. Badgley not only figured prominently in commercial
circles but was also a well known member of the Board of Trade,
a past master of St. Paul’s Lodge of Masons and a member of the
Christ Church cathedral. His death on March 7, 1906, left a
widow, son and daughter. The latter, Elizabeth Ruth, married
October 10, 1913, John William Shaw of Montreal, while the
former, Clement Montagu, was born September 17, 1886, in Montreal
and is the fourth generation of the Badgley family that have
been connected with Montreal’s business interests. He finished
his education in this city and after spending some time in
travel abroad, concluded to enter upon a business, rather than
a professional, career. He was in the employ of the Liverpool
& London & Globe Insurance Company for a time, after which he
became assistant head clerk for the Atlas Insurance Company.
With the valuable experience thus gained, Mr. Badgley entered
the insurance and real-estate business on his own account, and
at once secured a clientele that gave him a high position among
the best class of men in this line of business. He subsequently
became associated with David A. Lewis, as the firm of Lewis
& Badgley, in real estate and insurance, with offices in the
Merchants Bank building.

Mr. Badgley is a member of the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association, and the Canadian Club.


JAMES ROSS.

For almost a half century James Ross was intimately associated
with the growth and development of Canada and was an active
factor in establishing, building and promoting many of the
leading national and municipal railways of the country. It was
under him that Sir William Mackenzie started his career and
subsequently he cooperated with him in various enterprises
throughout the world. He was also a long-time associate of Sir
Sandford Fleming, Sir William Van Horne, Sir Thomas Shaughnessy
and Lord Strathcona, more particularly in the ’80s, in the
building of the Canadian Pacific Railway. He was also actively
interested in the executive control of the Montreal and Toronto
street railways from 1892. The extent and importance of his
business interests and investments made him therefore a most
prominent factor in the upbuilding and development of the country
and his name is inseparably interwoven with the history of Canada.

Mr. Ross was a son of the late Captain John Ross, merchant
and ship owner, and Mary B. (McKedie) Ross, formerly of
Newcastle-on-Tyne, England. His birth occurred in the year 1848
at Cromarty, Scotland, and after attending Inverness Academy in
his native land he continued his studies in England. His initial
step in the business world brought him into connection with
railway, harbor and water works in Great Britain. Following his
arrival in America he was appointed, in 1870, to the position of
resident engineer of the Ulster & Delaware Railway, of which road
he afterward became chief engineer. In 1872 he acted as resident
engineer of the Wisconsin Central Railway and subsequently
held a similar position with the Lake Ontario Shore road. It
was not long before his efficiency as an engineer won him wide
recognition and he was offered the position of chief engineer of
the Victoria Railway, of which he subsequently became general
manager. He was one of the most successful railway builders and
owners in the Dominion, the construction of the Canadian
Pacific over the Rockies being due to his power of organization
and engineering ability, and when Sir Donald Smith, later Lord
Strathcona, drove the last spike of the road, no one of that
historic group held a higher place in public regard in Canada
than Mr. Ross.

[Illustration: JAMES ROSS]

His active operations in the field of railway construction
included the building of the Credit Valley Railway in 1878-79
and upon its completion he was appointed general manager of the
road and also filled the position of consulting engineer of the
Ontario and Quebec Railway. In the spring of 1883 as general
manager of construction, Mr. Ross began at Swift Current the
building of the Canadian Pacific Railway over the Rockies,
the Selkirks and the Gold Range, and early in November, 1885,
this stretch of six hundred and twenty-three miles ending at
Craig Ellachie, was completed more than a year ahead of time,
creating a record for fast railway building on this continent
and evoking from Sir William Van Horne the statement that such
a record meant millions to the Canadian Pacific Railway. It was
during the building of the road over the mountains that Mr. Ross
might be said to have discovered and subsequently came into
close touch with William Mackenzie, Donald Mann (both since
knighted), Herbert S. Holt and several others who later on took a
front place among the railway magnates and financial leaders of
Canada. In 1886 Mr. Ross brought about the settlement of location
of the Canadian Pacific east of Montreal and the legislative
difficulties attending the entry of the road into the state of
Maine. Upon completing his arduous and complex task he took the
contract for the construction of the remaining portion of their
line not already provided for. The extensions and improvements of
the Canadian Pacific created difficult tasks of civil engineering
which were ably performed by Mr. Ross who at the same time
considered the question of railway construction in South America
for which he had options. The railways of the southern continent
were to be built in Argentine and Chile and the options in those
two republics alone amounted to over twenty million dollars. Mr.
Ross was also interested in important contracts in Chicago and
elsewhere.

He established his home permanently in Montreal in 1888 and
from this point supported his active professional interests,
contracting and building the Regina and Long Lake Railways some
two hundred and fifty miles in length. In 1889 he supervised the
construction of the Calgary & Edmonton Railway, three hundred
miles in length.

Having proven his capability in the field of steam railway
construction Mr. Ross, in 1892, largely concentrated his energies
upon problems of street railway building and in connection with
Sir William Mackenzie purchased the Toronto Railway from the
city of Toronto. He afterward rebuilt the tracks and installed
electric power in the operation of the road. In 1892 he undertook
the reorganization of the Montreal Street Railway, changing
it from horse car to electric service. He was at the head of
the syndicate that purchased the franchise from the old City
Passenger Railway Company. In the same way he converted the
street railways of Winnipeg and St. John, New Brunswick, into
electric lines and in 1896 he joined Sir William Mackenzie in
the purchase of the tramway systems of Birmingham, England,
and organized the City of Birmingham Tramways Company for the
operation of the road under an electric system. In the following
year he secured a charter and franchise from the government of
Jamaica to build electric tramways on the island.

The energy and enterprise of Mr. Ross seemed limitless. No matter
how many and how important were the enterprises with which he was
actively connected it seemed possible for him to take on others
and become a factor in their successful control. He was one of
the promoters of the Lake of the Woods Milling Company in 1887,
chief promoter of the Columbia River Lumber Company in 1889 and
of the Canadian Land and Investment Company in 1891. His opinions
carried weight in the councils of various companies with which he
was connected as a member of the board of directors, including
the Bank of Montreal; Calgary and Edmonton Land Company, Limited;
Canada Life Insurance Company; Canada Sugar Refining Company,
Limited; Canadian General Electric Company, Limited; Laurentide
Paper Company, Limited; Royal Trust Company; and Dominion Bridge
Company and St. John Railway Company, of which two last named he
was president.

Writing of his business career a local paper said: “One of the
most interesting periods of Mr. Ross’s life was that of his
prominent connection with the Dominion Coal and the Dominion
Iron and Steel Companies, lasting for a period of upwards of ten
years. At a comparatively early stage of the development of the
coal and iron industries on the island of Cape Breton, Mr. Ross
with his customary business astuteness, foresaw the possibilities
of great development, and decided to invest a considerable amount
of his capital there. He became the owner of a large block of
shares in the coal company, and after the promotion of the
Dominion Iron and Steel Company in 1901 he became a director.
As it was obvious that the interests of the two concerns would,
if steel turned out a success, be very much bound up, Mr. Ross
increased his holdings in coal until, in the same year, the Steel
Company was launched, his interest became paramount, and he was
placed in the position of being able to dictate the policy of
the company. Having retired from active participation in many
of the interests which made his earlier career such a busy one,
he determined to give his personal attention to the development
of his Cape Breton interests and with that object in view he
accepted the office of vice president of the Dominion Coal
Company and managing director of the Dominion Iron and Steel
Company in 1901.

“The succeeding years were destined to be full of business
anxieties and lively contendings but his keen business ability
and foresight brought him to the end of his active connection
with the companies a much richer man than when he went in,
despite the loss of the fight in the courts over the dispute
about the terms of the contract for the supply of coal to the
Steel Company, 1907-08.

“Besides this fight Mr. Ross conducted the affairs of the Coal
Company through disastrous fires which seriously affected the
output of the mines, and labor troubles one of which was of
a protracted and costly nature. Throughout all the various
negotiations which were almost continuously carried on between
the two companies for years, Mr. Ross found his paramount
interest was in the Coal Company although he was financially
and executively interested in both, so that eventually he
withdrew from the steel board and gave his whole time to the
Coal Company, becoming its president, a post he retained until
December, 1909. In March, 1909, at the annual meeting of the
Dominion Coal Company, Mr. Ross made an exhaustive statement
concerning the relations of the two companies following the
decision of the Privy Council in the preceding month, in which he
justified the course taken by his company. He explained from the
coal point of view, how the company had saved the Steel Company
from bankruptcy at a critical time following the termination of
the lease of the Coal Company to Steel in 1903 and the subsequent
dispute which became acute in 1906 and reached the courts
the following year. The final settlement of the terms of the
judgment between the two companies and the eventual purchase of
Mr. Ross’ interest in coal for four million, seven hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, which took place late in 1909 when he
retired from the presidency and Coal was amalgamated with Steel,
concluded the most interesting and strenuous period of his career.

“Although Mr. Ross had strong likes and dislikes he never
hesitated to proclaim openly ability he saw in the make-up of
a business opponent. A conversation during the progress of
the Steel and Coal litigation brought out this characteristic
to a marked degree. During that memorable conflict Mr. J. H.
Plummer and Sir William Van Horne were perhaps more prominently
in the firing line on the Steel side than any one else, while
Mr. Ross for the Coal Company was the inner and outer defenses
and commander-in-chief combined. He was asked one day while
discussing the possibilities of Canadian Pacific Railway stock
what would take place supposing anything happened to Sir Thomas
Shaughnessy, whereupon Mr. Ross said: ‘This statement will
surprise you, but Van Horne would have to go back,’ thus paying
a high compliment to his chief adversary in the Steel-Coal
conflict. The manner in which Mr. Ross came to the rescue of
a very important brokerage firm, the head of which is now
dead, the day following President Cleveland’s message on the
Venezuelan situation was another indication, not only of his
good heart, but general interest in the financial community. The
market was in a bad way generally when the message to congress
accentuated to such an extent the unrest and lack of confidence,
that gilt-edged securities were without buyers, even at ruinous
prices. The financier in question was desperately in need of
funds and although his securities were of the best, the then
general manager of the Bank of Montreal, who has also passed
away, did not consider himself justified in making the advance.
When James Ross heard of the affair he came forward and said:
‘We cannot afford to allow this man to go to the wall, for if he
goes half of St. François Xavier Street will tumble with him.
Give him a million, take his securities and charge the amount to
my account.’ Another public-spirited director assumed half the
responsibility and a very grave financial smash was averted.

“Mr. Ross was first president of the Mexican Light, Heat and
Power Company and during his several visits to the Mexican
capital was brought in contact with the then ruling spirits of
the republic. He at once formed a very high opinion of the then
president with whom Mr. Ross had several interesting interviews,
touching the trade relations of Canada and Mexico, and with
that never erring foresight he also stated to a friend on his
return from the Mexican capital that if ever Diaz was forced
to relinquish the helm of state, trouble would follow in the
southern republic as it did not appear to the Montreal financier
that there were enough of trained men around the then president
to carry on successfully the affairs of that country, and the
words of the former appear to have been prophetic.

“Although having a commanding interest in many other
establishments and industries Mr. Ross used to say that the Bank
of Montreal, the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Dominion Coal
Company were nearest his heart. He was a director in the first
named institution since 1899, the largest individual shareholder
in the great national railway system and up to a few years ago
the president and the holder of five million dollars stock
in the last named corporation. Mr. James Ross succeeded the
late Mr. Hugh McLennan and had been in consequence director of
the Bank of Montreal for fourteen years. Speaking of the loss
that institution sustained in the death of Mr. Ross, its vice
president and general manager, Mr. H. V. Meredith, said: ‘We have
lost an eminently strong man and a sound adviser,’ while Mr. R.
B. Angus, the president, spoke of him as a very able director of
the bank and a warm personal friend.”

About the time that Mr. Ross arrived in Canada the country
was deeply engrossed in the discussion of free trade versus
protection, and having seen the neighboring republic grow from
an agricultural to a manufacturing community, and realizing
what the same fiscal policy would do for Canada, he at once
espoused the cause then championed by Sir John Macdonald and
Sir Charles Tupper, both as regards the fiscal policy of the
Dominion and their railway program as well. Mr. Ross was a
moderate protectionist, believing that such a policy was
mutually beneficial both to the manufacturer and consumer. He
had seen such states as Illinois, Ohio, Minnesota and other
agricultural sections of the Union vote for protection and often
when apprehension was expressed over the probable outcome of a
moderately protective tariff for the western provinces of Canada,
Mr. Ross would reply that the establishment of eastern industries
all over the west would soon convert the farmers of Alberta,
Manitoba and Saskatchewan to protectionist ideas.

In 1872 Mr. Ross was united in marriage to Miss Annie Kerr, a
daughter of the late John Kerr of Kingston, New York, and sheriff
of Ulster county. They had one son, John Kenneth Levison Ross,
who married Ethel A. Matthews, a daughter of W. D. Matthews of
Toronto, and they have two children, James Kenneth and Hylda
Annie. Mrs. James Ross is deeply interested in organizations for
promoting aesthetic tastes and is active in support of benevolent
and charitable projects. She is a director of the Society of
Decorative Art, vice president of the English section of the
woman’s branch of the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society and is
president of the Maternity Hospital of Montreal.

Flags at half mast on the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Trust
Company, on September 20, 1913, gave official announcement to the
financial and business community that Mr. James Ross, director of
the institutions, had passed away. It is fitting in a review of
his life that one take cognizance of his many good deeds. Aside
from his prominent activity in railway and financial circles,
he was a man of marked public spirit and benevolence. In 1902
he gave to Lindsay, Ontario, and the county of Victoria, the
Ross Memorial Hospital as a memorial to his parents. Two years
later Alexandra Hospital of Montreal received from him a gift of
twenty-five thousand dollars and in 1910 he gave an equal amount
to the Montreal Art Association of which he had long been a
member and of which he was at that time the president. His total
benefactions to the Art Association amounted to over a quarter
of a million. In his will he made the following public bequests:
to the Royal Victoria Hospital, the General Hospital and the
Maternity Hospital each fifty thousand dollars; to Alexandra
Hospital twenty-five thousand dollars; to the Montreal Art
Association and to McGill University each one hundred thousand
dollars and to the Ross Memorial Hospital at Lindsay, Ontario,
twenty-five thousand dollars. He also remembered many of his old
friends and took special care that his servants and employes
should be provided for.

Mr. Ross was identified with many public interests and ranked
with loyal Canadians whose efforts have been effective forces in
promoting general progress.

He was a governor of McGill University, of the Royal Victoria
Hospital, of the Alexandra Hospital and of the Protestant
Hospital for the Insane at Montreal. He was likewise a trustee
of Bishop’s College at Lennoxville, P. Q., and in 1900 he was
appointed honorary lieutenant colonel of the Duke of York’s Royal
Canadian Hussars. He took an active interest in yachting and was
the owner of the Glencairn, which won the Seawanhaka-Corinthian
cup for half raters in American waters in 1896. He subsequently
bought the late Joseph Pulitzer’s large steam yacht, Liberty,
of one thousand six hundred fifty tons, which he renamed the
Glencairn, and in which he spent much of his vacation time in the
Mediterranean. It might be interesting to note here that both the
small half rater and the large steam yacht were named in memory
of the large full-rigged ship Glencairn, which was owned and
commanded by his late father, Captain John Ross, of Cromarty. Mr.
James Ross was for many years commodore of the Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht Club, and was honorary commodore for life, and was a member
of the Royal Yacht Squadron.

Mr. Ross was well known in club circles, holding membership
in the Mount Royal, St. James, Forest and Stream, Canada,
Montreal Hunt, Montreal Jockey, Montreal Racquet and Montreal
Curling Clubs of Montreal; Rideau Club of Ottawa; Manitoba Club
of Winnipeg; Toronto Royal Canadian Yacht and York Clubs of
Toronto; Union Club of St. John, New Brunswick; Halifax Club of
Halifax, Nova Scotia; New York Yacht and Manhattan Clubs of New
York; Royal C. B. Yacht Club of Sydney, Nova Scotia; and the
Constitutional Club of London, England.

Following the demise of Mr. Ross the Gazette of September 22,
1913, said editorially: “The history of James Ross is to some
extent the history of the financial and creative progress
of Canada. He has been associated with many of our greatest
enterprises and always in positions of prominence and leadership.
In any list of citizens whose financial power must be reckoned
with in predicting the course of supreme events in this country,
the name of James Ross would have stood near the top. Many of his
fellow citizens will think of him, however, as a generous and
discriminating collector and exhibitor of art. At a time when
Montreal had not many men who both appreciated and possessed the
financial ability to purchase splendid specimens of the best art
which the old world has produced, James Ross entered that field,
and soon made his private collection one of the things of which
Montrealers were proud. The public generally have had a chance to
admire some of his treasures at Loan Exhibitions; and, in this
fashion, the pleasure and benefit of his collection have been
widely shared.”

Tributes of respect and regard were paid to Mr. Ross by people
in every station in life. The high and the low, the rich and the
poor did him honor. The following letter was received by his son,
Mr. James K. L. Ross:

“The engineers on the S. and L. were much surprised and deeply
grieved when we heard that your father had passed away. Our
deepest sympathy goes out to you in your sad bereavement. We all
feel that we have lost a good and true friend. No other man we
have worked for gave our men the feeling of security in their
position that he did. We always were satisfied that if we did
what was right no other influence could hurt us or our families.
When some of us were unfortunate enough to err in judgment and
our error cost the company quite a lot, in the usual course of
railways the officials had nothing to do but severely discipline
us. Your father used his own position not to discipline our men
but to give them a good man’s advice, which has helped our men
and also the company which he then presided over. Acts like these
are never forgotten by railway men and there were many sincere
expressions of sorrow heard when the news of his death flashed
over our road. They have also instructed us to convey to your
sorrowing mother our deepest sympathy in her trying hour.

“On behalf of the S. and L. engineers, we are sincerely yours
(Signed) D. W. Macdonald, chairman; Parker Holmes, secretary and
treasurer; Hugh MacPherson, chief engineer.

“Glace Bay, Cape Breton, Canada, September 20, 1913.”

Another well merited tribute being from Principal Peterson of
McGill University, who said:

“The other day we were greatly gratified to learn that a member
of the board of governors, the late James Ross, had remembered
McGill University in his will to the extent of one hundred
thousand dollars. Mr. Ross was one of our friends. His connection
with the administration of the university had given him many
opportunities of appreciating the difficulty of carrying on an
institution whose needs in the very nature of things, are always
outrunning its resources; and his kindly thought of us has
touched a chord in our hearts that vibrates with gratitude and
appreciation.

“It is a melancholy pleasure to record also our indebtedness
to Mr. Ross for much help and advice given as a member of the
governing body of the university, especially in the department
of mechanical engineering. Besides being a great and experienced
engineer, he was a patron also of the arts and sciences. He took
an active interest also in the well-being of our hospitals, and
as they are in a sense university institutions, his bequests to
the Royal Victoria and Maternity Hospitals may be cited here as
additional reasons for gratitude. He was a man of high artistic
culture, one who ‘loved that beauty should go beautifully.’
Mere splendor without taste would always have been repellent
to him. Perhaps his best memorial, apart from the magnificent
collection of pictures which he got together with such care and
discrimination, and which was the joy and pride of his wide
circle of friends, will be the beautiful building on Sherbrooke
Street to which he has contributed so largely as the permanent
home of the Art Association. Such men lend valuable aid in the
way of enabling a community to realize some aspects of its higher
self.”


WALTER R. L. SHANKS.

Among the younger members of the well known and distinguished law
firm of Brown, Montgomery & McMichael, advocates and barristers,
is Walter R. L. Shanks. He was born March 20, 1886, at Millers
Falls, Massachusetts. In 1908 he received from McGill University
the Bachelor of Arts degree and in 1911 that of Bachelor of
Civil Law. In July of that year he was admitted to the bar and
has since been a member of the above firm. Mr. Shanks is a young
lawyer of promise, and it may be said that his ability--or
such ability as his opportunities have permitted him to
demonstrate--entitles him to be included among those young men to
whom the future holds out rich fields along professional lines.
Mr. Shanks is socially popular and is a member of the University
Club of Montreal and the Phi Delta Theta fraternity.


GEORGE ALEXANDER BROWN, M. D.

George Alexander Brown, M. D., one of the best known physicians
of Montreal, his powers developing through the exercise of
effort, was born in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, on
the 28th of June, 1866. The Browns are one of the old families
on that island and representatives of the name in different
generations have been prominently identified with professional
interests. The paternal grandfather of Dr. Brown was president
of the Prince of Wales College, while the maternal grandfather
was the leader of the government in Charlottetown for twenty-one
years.

Reared in the place of his nativity, Dr. Brown pursued his early
education in St. Peters Boys’ School and subsequently continued
his studies in Kings College University at Windsor, Nova Scotia.
The classical course which he there pursued constituted the
foundation upon which he built the superstructure of professional
learning. Entering McGill University, he won the degrees of M.
D. and C. M. from that institution where he graduated with the
class of 1889. During the succeeding year and a half he was
resident physician of the Montreal General Hospital, thus putting
his theoretical knowledge to the practical test and gaining
that broad and valuable experience which only hospital practice
can give. For more than twenty years Dr. Brown has successfully
followed his profession in Montreal and in addition to an
extensive private practice is acting as physician to the Montreal
Dispensary and is in charge of the tubercular clinic. He has
been a close and constant student of his profession, interested
in all that tends to bring to man the key to the complex mystery
which we call life and his own investigations and research have
resulted in bringing to light some valuable truths.

In February, 1906, he submitted to the Montreal
Medico-Chirurgical Society, a new treatment for consumption which
he has used in his practice with great success. This consists of
the injection into the human system of a solution principally
of iodine and in April, 1912, he read before the International
Tubercular Congress at Rome, Italy, a paper upon this treatment.
He is a member of the Montreal Medical Society and keeps in close
touch with the advanced work that is being done by fellow members
of the profession through the perusal of medical journals and the
latest contributions to medical literature as well as through his
connection with medical societies.

Dr. Brown was united in marriage to Mrs. Elizabeth (Conroy)
Muldoon of Watertown, who by her former marriage had two
children, William and Ella. Dr. and Mrs. Brown have become the
parents of two children, Elsie and Basil. They have a wide
acquaintance socially and are connected with the Unitarian
Society, while Dr. Brown is also a member of the University Club.
Year by year has marked his steady progress in his profession,
and today his position of prominence is accorded him by the
consensus of opinion on the part of colleagues and contemporaries.


SIR EDWARD SEABORNE CLOUSTON.

High on the keystone of Canada’s financial arch was inscribed the
name of Sir Edward Clouston, of whom a leading journalist wrote:
“He was one of the mainsprings of Canada’s progress.” Not only
did he achieve notable results in his own career but was also
the adviser and counsellor of many who have stood highest in the
public life and activities of the Dominion, and thus a notable
figure passed from the stage of earthly activities when he was
called to his final rest on the 23d of November, 1912. He was
then still in the prime of life, his birth having occurred at
Moose Factory on James Bay, May 9, 1849, his parents being James
Stewart and Margaret Clouston. The father, a native of Stromness,
Orkney, Scotland, was a chief factor in the Hudson’s Bay service.
The mother was the eldest daughter of Robert S. Miles, also
prominently connected with the Hudson’s Bay Company. Sent to
Montreal to continue his education, the son became a pupil in
the high school, of which Aspinwall How was then head master.
Subsequently he spent a year in the service of the Hudson’s Bay
Company and then returned to Montreal when a youth of sixteen
to become junior clerk in the Bank of Montreal, entering that
institution in 1865. This was the initial step in his successful
career as one of Canada’s foremost financiers. In his twentieth
year he was appointed accountant at Brockville and two years
later was transferred to Hamilton in the same capacity. In
1874 he became assistant accountant at Montreal, was attached
to the London, England, office and also to the New York office
in 1875. Five years later he was made manager of the Montreal
branch and in 1887 was promoted to the position of assistant
general manager. In 1889 he became acting general manager and
from 1890 was general manager, being called to that position
of grave and great responsibility when but forty-one years of
age. Throughout the years of his connection with the bank he had
ever in mind, not only the interest of the shareholders, but also
the welfare of his subordinates, many of whom received from him
unusual consideration and kindness. Sir Edward Clouston’s tenure
of office in the Bank of Montreal was longer than that of any of
his predecessors, the presidency during these years having been
filled by Sir Donald Smith, afterward Lord Strathcona and Mount
Royal; Sir George Drummond and Mr. R. B. Angus. In retiring from
the general managership Sir Edward Clouston retained the vice
presidency, which he had held since Sir George Drummond became
president in 1906. In his official capacity as vice president
he regularly attended the board meetings and never ceased to be
in close touch with the important affairs and interests of the
bank. The prominent place which he held in the regard of the
leading financiers of the country is shown by the fact that he
was again and again elected to the presidency of the Canadian
Bankers Association. He was thus in constant touch with the
financial world and his advice upon matters connected with it
was frequently sought by the different finance ministers of the
Dominion, for no man in Canada had a surer grasp of difficult
financial problems, and his genius in this respect was an
enormous asset to the great institution with which he was so long
connected. His discernment was keen and his insight enabled him
readily to recognize the possibilities and probable outcome of
any business situation. The Montreal Herald spoke of him as “a
man of few words, of unerring accuracy in his judgments and of
a caution in business transactions which, while it protects the
bank from loss, does not hinder its development.” The Montreal
Witness said: “Sir Edward Clouston possesses in extraordinary
degree that sixth sense of the banker--intuition as to character,
rapid analysis of method, what is in a proposition from the first
chapter to the last--in short knowing who and what to trust.”
It was these qualities which made his cooperation sought in
various directions and brought him prominently before the public
in various important commercial and financial connections. He
was vice president of the Royal Trust Company; a director of
the Guarantee Company of North America, the Canadian Cottons,
Limited, the Canada Sugar Refining Company, the Ogilvie Flour
Mills Company, the Kaministikwia Power Company. He was chairman
of the Canadian board of the Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance
Company and the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. His
cooperation and support extended to various other projects of a
public or semi-public character, and at all times he manifested a
deep interest in those projects relating to general progress and
improvement or the betterment of social, intellectual, political
and moral conditions. He was vice president of the Parks and Play
Grounds Association and The Crematorium, Limited, was president
of the Royal Victoria Hospital and a governor of the Montreal
General, Montreal Maternity, Alexandra and Western Hospitals,
the Protestant Hospital for the Insane, the Fraser Institute,
the Montreal Dispensary, the Victorian Order of Nurses, and
McGill University. In 1910 he was one of the principal promoters
of the Typhoid Emergency Hospital and was a member of the
executive committee of the local branch of St. John’s Ambulance
Association. He was honorary treasurer of the King Edward VII
Memorial Fund and of many other commemorative and charitable
funds. He was a patron of art, and possessed many fine pictures
himself, while the Montreal Art Association numbered him as one
of its counselors as well as one of its generous benefactors.
Sir Edward Clouston was also well known as a sportsman, taking
an active interest in early life in football and lacrosse, and
he was also a well known racquet player. He was captain of the
Canadian team which played the Harvard University Football Club
in 1875. He was president of the Montreal Racquet Club in 1888
and was appointed a trustee of the Minto challenge lacrosse cup
in 1901. Sir Edward was ever willing to encourage the amateurs
in sports, and in addition to those already mentioned he was
a devotee of snowshoeing and fancy skating. In later years he
became an enthusiastic yachtsman, motorist and golfer. He was
also a clever swimmer himself and did a great deal to advance the
sport in many ways. He was the donor of a trophy for competition
among the members of the Royal Life Saving Station, which is
being competed for annually, and many other such trophies were
presented through his generosity. When the Rugby Club was
organized as a branch of the Montreal Athletic Association he
became an active executive officer. He was one of the trustees of
the Stanley cup in the early days of its competition and acted as
an official at many of the championships held under the auspices
of the Amateur Skating Association of Canada.

[Illustration: SIR EDWARD S. CLOUSTON]

In November, 1878, Sir Edward Clouston married Annie, youngest
daughter of George Easton, collector of Her Majesty’s customs
at Brockville, Ontario. Lady Clouston, who survives him, keeps
up the beautiful and historic estate at St. Annes, known as
Bois Briant, which was the pride and delight of Sir Edward’s
later years, and she also maintains the home at No. 362 Peel
Street in Montreal, known so long as the city residence of the
general manager of the Bank of Montreal. This was Sir Edward’s
favorite title. President and vice president appealed to him
but little; it was as an administrator that he won and held his
fame. He was mentioned as successor to Lord Strathcona as high
commissioner for Canada in Great Britain in 1909. The previous
year he had been created a baronet and in 1911 he was appointed
a Knight of Grace of the Order of the Hospital of St. John of
Jerusalem in England. He was one of the best known club men of
Canada, belonging to Mount Royal Club; St. James Club; Auto and
Aero Club; Forest and Stream Club; M. A. A. A.; Montreal Hunt
Club; Montreal Jockey Club; Royal Montreal Golf Club; Royal St.
Lawrence Yacht Club; St. George Snowshoe Club; Toronto Club and
York Club, Toronto; Rideau Club, Ottawa; Manhattan Club, New
York; and Bath Club and River Thames Yacht Club, London, England.

In a review of his life history many points stand out
prominently. Within a quarter of a century he rose from an humble
position in the bank to that of general manager and remained
vice president until his demise. He was the recognized leader of
finance, whose counsel was sought and valued in connection with
the greatest undertakings. His business genius and public spirit
went hand in hand and each constituted factors in the progress
and upbuilding of Canada and in the development and promotion
of the country’s interests. His influence was far-reaching and
effective as a force in national prosperity and greatness.

One who knew Sir Edward best summed up his character in the
following article, which appeared in the journal of the Canadian
Bankers Association after his death: “In life Sir Edward
Clouston was a man of few words and I have felt that silence is
my most fitting tribute to his memory. He was not an ostentatious
man; he employed neither press agents nor stage managers. Many of
his generous actions are known only to the writer of these lines;
many others are known only to his Maker.”


PHILIBERT BAUDOUIN.

Philibert Baudouin, who has been a representative of the notarial
profession since 1858, although for some years his attention
was given to finance, was born at Repentigny, Quebec, April 27,
1836. He is a descendant in the direct line of Jean Baudouin,
who was here bartering with the Indians as early as 1656,
fourteen years after Montreal was founded by de Maisonneuve. In
a fight with the Iroquois in 1660, when he killed one of their
chieftains, Jean Baudouin was taken and led as a prisoner to the
enemy’s country, whence he returned eighteen months afterward,
having in the meantime learned the Iroquois language. A short
time subsequent to his return he married and soon settled in
the parish of Pointe-aux-Trembles, where he died peacefully. He
had lost his eldest son in an ambush laid by the same astute
foes in 1690. One of his sons, François, took a farm from the
Seignior on L’Assomption river in 1699, near the present site of
Charlemagne, and a few years afterward, in 1716, purchased the
homestead on the north bank of the river St. Lawrence, in the
parish and Seigniory of Repentigny, where he went to live and
there spent his remaining days. This homestead remained in the
family for almost two centuries, passing from father to son for
four generations. François Baudouin left it to his son Pierre,
who married three times and left it to his son Raymond. Raymond
was drowned and his widow made a gift of it to their son Pierre.
From this last Pierre Baudouin it went to Zoel Baudouin, one of
his sons, whose daughter and only heir, Mrs. Edmond Robillard, of
St. Paul l’Hermite, sold it to its present owner, Mr. Dechamp.

Philibert Baudouin is a son of Pierre and Marguerite (Etu)
Baudouin, the latter, like her husband, belonging to one of the
old families established in this province in the seventeenth
century. The mother’s name was then written Estur, which has
since been wrongly changed to Hetu. The family name Baudouin
should be so spelled instead of Beaudoin, as so often met with
at the present time. It is derived from two Saxon words, bald
and win, and was latinized by the early chroniclers, becoming
Balduinus, which was later translated into French as Baudouin
but remained Baldwin in English. The first one who settled in
Montreal very properly signed his name Jean Baudouin, as may be
seen on the old records in the clerk’s office, and in France it
is still written in the same way. Besides being a progressive
farmer Pierre Baudouin was a church warden and a captain in the
militia.

Philibert Baudouin was educated at L’Assomption College, in the
town of L’Assomption, where he pursued a full classical course,
completed in 1854. He then prepared for the notarial profession,
to which he was admitted in 1858. In 1860 he settled for
practice in the town of Iberville and after nearly fifteen years
devoted to the profession he turned his attention to finance,
devoting his energies and activities thereto until 1893, when
he removed to Montreal and resumed the practice of the notarial
profession. He has now passed the seventy-eighth milestone on
life’s journey, but is still an active man. From 1862 until 1873
he was county clerk, clerk of the circuit court for the county
of Iberville and town clerk of Iberville, his decade of public
service being characterized by the utmost fidelity to duty. His
financial activities covered nearly twenty years as bank manager
in St. Johns, Quebec.

On the 22d of August, 1864, in St. Johns, Mr. Baudouin was
married to Miss Caroline A. Marchand, a daughter of Louis
Marchand, deputy protonotary at St. Johns, and of Delphine
Phineas. Mrs. Baudouin belongs to the old Marchand family
which settled in St. Johns in the early part of the nineteenth
century. There were three brothers, François, Gabriel and Louis,
the second being the father of the Hon. F. G. Marchand, late
premier of the province of Quebec. Her mother was a daughter of
Isaac Phineas, for a long time agent at Maskinonge, of Seignior
Pothier’s estate, and who was an intimate friend of the Hart
family of Three Rivers. Seven sons and two daughters have been
born of the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Baudouin, Philibert,
Annette, Gustave, Rodolphe, Joseph, Jean, Charles, Louise and
Oscar. The elder daughter became the wife of Dr. J. C. Tasse, of
Worcester, Massachusetts. Gustave married Augustine Hardy, of
Quebec. Joseph wedded Julie Caty, of Montreal. Jean married Alice
Hamilton, of Montreal. Oscar married Hilda Julien, of Montreal.
Louise is the wife of Alfred Masson, of Valleyfield, a grandson
of Dr. L. H. Masson, who took a leading part in the troublous
times of 1837-38.

Mr. Baudouin is a supporter of the old conservative party,
but has never taken a leading part in the political contests,
especially so in his advanced years, when he recognizes the fact
that political leaders too often are using their power for their
own preferment instead of the public good.


JOSEPH ADELARD DESCARRIES, K. C.

In every community there are men of broad charity and intelligent
public spirit, of high integrity and sincerity of purpose and
of resourceful business ability who are marked as leaders in
development. Worthy of being classed with men of this character
is Joseph Adelard Descarries, one of the eminent members of
the Montreal bar and a man whose name figures in connection
with the legislative history of the province as well as in the
court records. Mr. Descarries is a representative of one of the
oldest families of the province and one whose members have been
identified with its growth and development since the earlier
periods of settlement. He was born at St. Timothee, in the county
of Beauharnois, Quebec, November 7, 1853, the youngest son of the
late Pierre and Elizabeth (Gougeau) Descarries.

Having mastered the branches of learning taught in the public
schools of his native village, Joseph A. Descarries afterward
attended Montreal College, McGill University and Laval University,
graduating from the latter in 1879, with the degree of LL. L. He
studied law under Hon. Sir Alexander Lacoste and was called to
the bar in 1879, at which time he began practice as an advocate.
He was created a king’s counsellor by the Earl of Derby in 1893
and for more than a third of a century he has been continuously
and successfully engaged in law practice in Montreal, where he
has been accorded an extensive and distinctively representative
clientage.

[Illustration: JOSEPH A. DESCARRIES]

His public work, too, has been of an important character and has
indicated his loyalty to the highest standards of government.
For nine consecutive years he was mayor of Lachine, giving to
the city a businesslike and progressive administration. In 1892
he was elected for Jacques Cartier county to the legislative
assembly, but resigned in 1896, in which year he unsuccessfully
contested a seat in the house of commons. Since that time he has
taken no active part in politics aside from exercising his right
of franchise and standing stanchly in support of principles and
measures in which he believes. He is now president of the Lachine
Conservative Club and is also president of the St. Jean Baptiste
Society of Lachine.

Mr. Descarries is the largest private owner of real estate
in Lachine, his holdings including some of the finest
residential properties surrounding Montreal. Some years ago
he purchased a tract of land eleven acres in width from the
Allan family, comprising a most attractive piece of property,
which he developed and thus added greatly to the upbuilding
of the district. He is the owner of one hundred and fifty-two
houses, erecting all of them save one, and in their building
substantiality has always been a feature. Unlike the usual
structure built merely to sell, Mr. Descarries has aimed at
the creation of an estate the ultimate value of which cannot
help but become immense. As an illustration of the change in
realty values, caused by improvements and transformation of
surroundings, it may be cited that Mr. Descarries some years
ago purchased a tract of land of four hundred acres, on which
the taxes were at that time approximately eighty dollars,
while today for less than one-third of this land which he owns
the taxes are more than three thousand dollars. It would be
difficult to estimate the value to a community of operations
of this character. Mr. Descarries has taken an active part in
the upbuilding of industrial interests, and his influence has
been an important factor in securing for Lachine a number of
valuable industries, all of which have materially contributed
to growth and development for the city, enabling it to take a
prominent rank among Montreal’s suburban cities. Among his other
business connections Mr. Descarries is president of the Wealthy
Mines Company, Limited, and a director of Les Champs d’Or Rigaud
Vaudreuil.

In 1881 Mr. Descarries was married, at Chateauguay, Quebec, to
Miss Marie Celina Elmire, a daughter of A. N. Le Pailleur, a
notary public of Lachine. The marriage ceremony was performed
by Monseigneur Charles Edward Fabre, archbishop of Montreal.
Mrs. Descarries is a graduate of Mount St. Marie Convent and
is a lady of superior intelligence and high qualities of mind.
Their children are as follows. Joseph A. P., who was graduated
from McGill University, specializing in chemistry, founded the
Lachine Gas Company, of which he is now the head. He married Miss
Oliva Forgues, of Outremont, a graduate of St. Anne’s Convent at
Lachine. They have two children, Olivette and Marcelle. Theophile
N., who was graduated from Laval University, is an advocate,
associated with his father under the firm name of Descarries &
Descarries. He married Miss Marie Anne Huot, a daughter of Dr. G.
Huot, of Beauharnois, and they have one child, Anne Marie. Aimee,
a graduate of St. Anne’s Convent of Lachine, is a young lady of
unusual artistic taste and skill. Her work as a painter on china
shows exceptional merit and includes some of the finest specimens
of this decorative art exhibited by Canadian artists. Adelard, a
graduate of Mount St. Louis College, is now a student at l’Ecole
des Hautes Etudes. Marie Rose will graduate from St. Anne’s
Convent of Lachine in the class of 1914. Auguste, a student at
St. Mary’s College, is a young man of unusual talent and promise,
whose ability as an organist is well known.

Mr. Descarries’ pleasure and recreation have always been greatly
augmented when in the company of his family, whose entertainment,
like their rearing and education, has never been neglected.
Estimating highly the value of education, he has extended to his
children exceptional opportunities for intellectual development
and they constitute a family that would be a distinct credit
to any parentage. Both Mr. and Mrs. Descarries have always
maintained a companionship with their children and have been
so close to their interests, thoughts, purposes and plans that
there has been little need for that parental discipline which
is often a too pronounced feature in households. Confidence and
mutual understanding have been the basis of the family relation,
rendering this a most attractive household. The religious
belief of the family is that of the Roman Catholic church, and
Mr. Descarries has for several years been president of the
St. Vincent de Paul Society. He is also a member of the Club
Lafontaine, the Lachine Snowshoe Club and the Auto and Aero Club
of Montreal.

No history of Mr. Descarries would be complete without mention
of the fact that he is a very public-spirited man, liberal and
generous in his support of any movement for the public good and
ever ready to lend his assistance to such movements as will
contribute to the advancement of the city, province and Dominion.
He has been a very successful business man, not only as regards
the accumulation of property but as well in the high esteem in
which he is held. He has all the elements of a man in whom to
have confidence, dependable in any relation and in any emergency.
His quietude of deportment, his easy dignity, combined with
an innate courtesy and politeness, all contribute to a strong
personality. The splendid use he has made of his time, talents
and opportunities has equipped him for the important and valuable
work he has been doing and which has given decided impetus to the
city’s progress and improvement, upholding as well its legal,
political and moral status.


LOUIS GUYON.

Capability and loyalty are the essential attributes of the man
who would fill the office of chief inspector of industrial
establishments and public buildings and properly perform the
arduous and responsible duties thereby devolving upon him. Such
a man is found in Louis Guyon, who has closely studied the
subject of construction and all that relates to accidents which
may occur in building operations. He is a native of the state
of New York, having been born at Sandy Hill, Washington county.
Boyhood, however, found him located in Montreal where he pursued
his education, taking special courses in preparation for a
commercial career. Almost throughout his entire life he has been
in the public service. In April, 1888, he was appointed factory
inspector and made a most capable official. He studied in every
available way in order to know what should be required of factory
owners and operators and just how far their responsibility
extended in the protection of employes. He traveled widely in
order to promote his knowledge of that character and he was a
delegate to the Paris convention on accidents in 1889 and again
in 1900. His qualifications were so thoroughly recognized that he
was made chief inspector of industrial establishments and public
buildings in January, 1901, and has since occupied this position,
covering a period of thirteen years, his entire course being one
which commends him to the continued confidence and support of
the public. As inspector he has studied not only to find where
fault may lie in the erection of buildings or in the care of
employes, but has also studied the best methods of safeguarding
the workers and in 1903 he founded the museum of appliances for
the prevention of accidents. His reputation for efficiency in his
special field continued to grow and in 1910 he was made president
of the International Convention of Inspectors of Factories. No
one is more deeply interested in this important work or realizes
more fully the obligations which devolve upon the employer in
his connection with his employes, and his work has constituted a
campaign of education whereby the public has come to know what
are the needs and demands of the hour and how best to meet them.


GEORGE HADRILL.

George Hadrill, secretary of the Montreal Board of Trade, is
one whose opinions concerning business conditions are largely
accepted as standard, because of his broad experience and his
thorough study of matters effecting trade relations of the
country. For more than a quarter of a century he has occupied
his present position and has been called into conference in many
trade councils. He was born in London, England, August 2, 1848,
a son of George and Elizabeth (Bushell) Hadrill. His education
was acquired in the metropolis, and he spent the earlier years
of his business life in that city, arriving in Canada in 1874,
when a young man of twenty-six years. Three years were devoted
to business pursuits before he joined the staff of the Montreal
Board of Trade in 1877. His fitness for the position is evidenced
in the fact that by 1880 he had been promoted to the position
of assistant secretary. Six years passed and in 1886 he was
made secretary, so that he has now acted in that capacity for
twenty-eight years. The occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary
of his acceptance of the position was fittingly celebrated, and a
cabinet of silverware was presented him by the Montreal Board of
Trade.

His position as secretary brings him into close contact with
business affairs and trade organizations throughout the world.
He has been a delegate to several imperial trade congresses, the
last being held in Sydney, Australia. By invitation he was a
delegate to Newfoundland to assist in the formation of a board of
trade there in 1909. He was presented in 1903 with a testimonial
from British delegates to the imperial trade congress at Montreal
in acknowledgement of courtesies and services rendered by him.
In 1905 he was elected an honorary member of the International
Board of Foreign Trade and was made honorary secretary of the
King Edward memorial committee of Montreal in 1911. His position
has brought him into close connection with many important civic
and municipal projects with which the Board of Trade has been
intimately associated.

In 1891 Mr. Hadrill married Emmeline Lilian, the daughter of
J. Albert Copland of Chelmsford, England. Mrs. Hadrill died in
December, 1902. Mr. Hadrill has been a director of St. George’s
Society of Montreal and is an Anglican in religious faith.
The Montreal Herald has written of him that he is “a man of
great natural abilities as a statistician and accountant.” “He
possesses unusual qualifications for his office, which calls for
a display of diplomacy, tact and social qualities as well as for
purely business ability,” writes another paper, and this opinion
is corroborated by all who have come in contact with him. While
thoroughly systematic and methodical in managing the duties of
his position, he has at the same time that ready resourcefulness
which enables him to meet an emergency and secure from it the
best possible results.


CHARLES MELVILLE HAYS.

The tales of heroic conduct in times of war will always arouse
the enthusiasm and call forth the praise of those who hear them,
but heroism is by no means confined to the men who wear their
nation’s uniform and march to the sound of the bugle. It has been
manifest where there were none to witness and none to record the
story and with nothing but an individual sense of duty for its
inspiration. The world thrilled with the story of the heroism
of the men, who, in the silence of the night, gave women and
children over to the care of the few who manned the lifeboats
and quietly awaited death on the decks of the steamship Titanic
when it sank on its maiden trip across the Atlantic, April 15,
1912. Included in the great toll of human lives exacted by
this catastrophe, was that of Charles Melville Hays, president
of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railways and one of the foremost
railroad magnates of his generation. His was the master mind
in the development of the Grand Trunk Pacific and his work for
the Grand Trunk Railway has become a part of the history of the
Dominion. One of the elements of his success was that he was
always essentially and strictly a railroad man, never dissipating
his energies over too broad a field but concentrating his efforts
along that single line of activity.

A native of Rock Island, Illinois, Mr. Hays was born in 1856, and
was but a child when his parents removed to St. Louis, Missouri,
in which city he was reared and received his educational
training. He was but a boy of seventeen when he started out in
life on his own account as a clerk in the passenger department of
the Atlantic & Pacific Railway. From that time on his advancement
was continuous and rapid, solely the result of his thoroughness,
efficiency and genuine merit. After a year he was transferred to
the auditor’s department and later was called to a position in
the office of the general superintendent, where his aptitude,
enterprise and initiative were soon recognized. From 1878 until
1884 he was secretary to the general manager of the Missouri
Pacific Railroad and in the latter year was offered and
accepted the position of secretary to the general manager of the
Wabash & St. Louis Pacific Railway Company.

[Illustration: CHARLES M. HAYS]

In 1886 he was appointed general manager of the road and the
following year became general manager of the Wabash Western,
comprising all of the Wabash lines west of the Mississippi and
also between Chicago and Detroit. In 1889 he was appointed
general manager of the reorganized and consolidated Wabash
system and controlled the important and manifold interests of
the railway for six years or until he resigned to become general
manager of the Grand Trunk, succeeding L. J. Seargeant. Five
years later he left the Grand Trunk to take the position of
president of the Southern Pacific Railway Company but remained
in that connection for only a year, as the railway passed under
the control of the Harriman interests, whose policy differed from
that of Mr. Hays. About that time he received a communication
from Sir Charles Rivers Wilson, again offering him the position
of general manager of the Grand Trunk and he returned to the
latter road late in 1901 as second vice president and general
manager. His connection therewith was continuous from that
time until his demise, and on the retirement of Sir Charles
Rivers Wilson in October, 1909, he was appointed president. In
the meantime his connection with railway interests constantly
broadened, making him one of the notable figures in railway
circles on the American continent. He became president of the
Central Vermont Railway, the Grand Trunk Western Railway, the
Detroit, Grand Haven & Milwaukee Railway, the Toledo, Saginaw &
Muskegon Railway, the Michigan Air Line Railway, the Chicago,
Detroit and Canada Grand Trunk Junction Railway, the Detroit &
Toledo Shore Line, the Southern New England Railway Company, the
Canadian Express Company, the Grand Trunk Railway Insurance &
Provident Society and of various corporations featuring largely
as factors in commercial and industrial development. He was
chosen to the presidency of the St. Clair Tunnel Company, the
International Bridge Company, the Montreal Warehousing Company,
the Portland Elevator Company and the New England Elevator
Company. He also represented the Grand Trunk Western Railway as
a director of the Chicago & Western Indiana Railway and Belt
Railway of Chicago.

In 1905 he was made a member of the permanent commission of
the International Railway Congress and also a director of the
United States Mortgage & Trust Company. He was a delegate to
the Imperial Trades Congress in 1903. He became a director of
the Royal Trust Company and the Merchants Bank of Canada and
a director of the Canadian Board of the London & Lancashire
Life Assurance Company. He was also a director of the Montreal
Horticultural and Fruit Growing Association--a fact which
indicated much of the breadth of his interests. His executive
ability was sought as an element in the successful management of
various benevolent, charitable and philanthropic enterprises.
He was a governor of the Montreal General Hospital, a governor
of the Royal Victoria Hospital and a governor of the McGill
University. In 1907 he was decorated with the Order of the Rising
Sun (third class) by the emperor of Japan.

He was a man of remarkable personality. Obstacles and
difficulties seemed but a stimulus for renewed effort on his part
and he was never happier than when he could grasp an opportunity
and utilize it to the fullest extent or untangle a knotty problem
in railway management and control. Mr. Hays was a well known
figure in club circles, belonging to the Mount Royal, St. James,
Canada, Forest and Stream, Montreal Jockey, Montreal Hunt, St.
Maurice Fish and Game Club and the Laurentian Club of Montreal
and the Rideau Club of Ottawa. Sir Wilfrid Laurier had termed him
“a valuable acquisition to Canada,” and the Montreal Witness said
he was “a splendid example of what brains, pluck and industry can
overcome and accomplish,” while the Montreal Standard styled him
“a man of quiet dignity, whose sanity and strength are seen and
felt in all his undertakings.”

Mr. Hays was survived by his widow, who was Miss Clara J. Gregg,
a daughter of William H. Gregg of St. Louis, Missouri, and
four daughters, Mrs. George D. Hall, of Boston, Mrs. Thornton
Davidson, Mrs. A. Harold Grier and Mrs. Hope C. Scott, of
Montreal.

One of the ships that hastened to the relief of the Titanic
recovered the body of Mr. Hays, which was brought back to
Montreal for interment and laid to rest following one of the most
imposing funerals ever accorded a civilian in this city. Mr. Hays
worshipped at the American Presbyterian church of Montreal and
was one of its trustees, but retained his membership in the First
Presbyterian church of St. Louis, Missouri, and in the memorial
services held in the former on the 25th of April, 1912, a sermon
by the Rev. Dr. McKittrick, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church of St. Louis, following the death of Mr. Hays, was read.
He said in part: “The colossal catastrophe of the seas which has
so recently startled and dismayed the civilized world could not
pass today entirely unnoted in the temples of the living God.
Among those who went down to their unexpected and, it seems to
our vision, their untimely death, there was no man who worthily
had a higher position in the social, industrial and financial
world than Mr. Charles M. Hays, president of the Grand Trunk
Railway of Canada. Since commonly the boy is father of the man
we might almost refer to him as ‘our Mr. Hays’ for he was once
in our Sunday School, and afterwards a member of our Board of
Trustees. His is an inspiring example to all our boys and to
every boy in the land of what may be accomplished by rightful
purpose, industry, determination, all these by the worthy motives
which variously constitute character. It took all the elements
which are found in a manly man to make first so notable a record
as was his in this city, and then to create for himself the
distinguished name and for his undertaking the great prosperity
which concerning both the history of today reveals.”

The following reference to Mr. Hays’ life and work was made at
the close of public worship in the American Presbyterian church,
Montreal, on Sabbath, April 28th. Dr. Johnston said: “The subject
that we have been considering this morning has unavoidably
suggested to you, as it has to me, many thoughts regarding the
life, the death and the work of Mr. Charles M. Hays whose loss
our land mourns today.

“Much has already been said of Mr. Hays as the railway magnate,
the man of enterprise, the devoted husband and father and the
loyal friend. Upon these phases of his character I will not
therefore further dwell, but there remains something to be said
of that feature of his life which, though less conspicuous to
the general public, nevertheless lay deep and strong behind
all these other characteristics, and was indeed the inspiration
of them. We all in this congregation know the large place which
Mr. Hays gave to the work and worship of the church, and the
readiness with which his time and influence were always lent
to its interests. He loved the House of God. That love, in a
measure, was doubtless the result of early training in a home of
whose deep religious character he ever loved to speak in terms of
affection and appreciation. It was also due in part to his deep
sense of what he owed in his place of great prominence to the
community at large, and to a younger generation in particular,
in the way of example. Most of all, however, it was due to his
appreciation of the place that worship should have in every
life, and to his deep sense of the need of every soul for those
things that the House of God and its services can give. This
attitude instead of lessening, as in so many lives it does, as
responsibilities increased, and honours accumulated, deepened in
Mr. Hays with the passing years.

“The continent-wide enterprises with which his name will always
be associated were not simply enterprises and interests to him.
They constituted a work, a ministry, which it was given him
to administer for man, and through man for God. The tens of
thousands for whom he had already thrown open the door of their
exodus from European stagnation and oppression were his Israel,
whom he, in God’s name, was leading out into liberty and larger
life. These broad prairies and boundless stretches of Northern
Saskatchewan and the Peace River district, those hitherto
impassable Rockies, giving gateway to the flowering farmlands
that slope toward the silver sands of the Pacific--these were
his Canaan, which it was his to conquer, not with sword and
clash of battle, but with genius and enterprise and the power of
science, so that into the good ‘Land of Promise’ he might bring
the oppressed peoples of the world, to make a nation strong in
liberty and in righteousness.

“Did time permit I could tell you much of how Mr. Hays carried on
his great heart, the toiling multitudes of earth and their needs,
and of how it was to him a vision glorious that he was permitted
in some measure to contribute to their uplift and redemption. He,
too, like Israel’s leader, had looked upon the burdens of the
people. To us it seems that, like Moses, he has been permitted
only to view his promised land from afar. On the threshhold of
completion he has been bidden to lay down his work. A broken
column? A work incomplete? Yes, if this world is all, and this
life the only life, but if death is indeed for the life that
lives in Christ, not extinction but expansion, not frustration
but promotion, than surely in some other of the many mansions in
our Father’s one great house, they still serve who have ceased
from labor here, and work with gladness for the bringing in of
that day when throughout all the universe of God there shall be
nothing to hurt nor to destroy, but ‘God shall be all and in
all.’”

The press throughout the American continent united in tribute to
Charles Melville Hays and under the caption of Montreal’s Loss
the Gazette of April 19, 1912, said editorially: “Among the
many places which will have home reasons for bearing the loss
(April 15, 1912) of the steamship Titanic in sorrowful memory
there will be few to rank before Montreal. Of residents who had
won or were winning honorable places of usefulness in the city’s
commercial life, no less than four ended their earthly career in
the dark hours of Monday when the Atlantic waters closed over
the wreck of what had been one of the world’s noblest vessels.
First of these, of course, ranks Mr. Charles M. Hays, president
of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railways and director and adviser in
many allied and other enterprises. Mr. Hays came to Montreal as
a stranger, when the condition and fortunes of the Grand Trunk
Railway were low indeed. The life had apparently gone out of the
direction and a great property, with greater potentialities, was
in danger of passing into bankruptcy. He and his associates found
their task harder also because they were strangers. It was only a
little while, however, before the city and the country, as well
as the proprietors of the railway, recognized that in the new
general manager, which was the title Mr. Hays then had, they had
a man who for capacity ranked with the highest in his profession.
With a slight interruption Mr. Hays has had chief executive
control since 1897 of the Grand Trunk Railway. In that time it
has been lifted physically to the standard of a high class, well
equipped road, with few superiors in America. Financially it
has been so improved as to meet the interest charges on the new
capital raised for betterments and has been able to pay dividends
on some of the older issues that once seemed to have lost all
value as investments. In late years he was a chief moving spirit
in the projection and construction of the Grand Trunk Pacific
Railway, which is now approaching completion. His work in these
connections speaks of his executive ability louder than can words
written or spoken. It is only to be added that in all relations
of life, business or social, he was a plain, courteous and kindly
gentleman, to whom all were ready to pay in full measure the
respect that he deserved.”

The memorial service read in the American Presbyterian church
to which previous allusion has been made, was one of the most
impressive ever held within the borders of Canada and the
tributes to Mr. Hays on that occasion attested how high was the
position which he held in the regard of business colleagues,
of eminent educators, ministers and others. Principal Peterson
of McGill University said in part: “We have done well to come
together in this solemn manner, not to meet in a useless parade
of grief and sorrow, but to pay a sincere tribute to the worth
of one who has gone to his last reward and to express our
sympathy to those who suffer the loss of one so dear, and who
have scarcely yet survived the shock of their sudden bereavement.
Our men died like heroes--in that last dread extremity they bore
themselves nobly and well.

“And I doubt not that foremost in fortitude was that
great-hearted man who today is mourned throughout the world,
Charles M. Hays, who was then eagerly returning to take his
controlling part in those great enterprises with which his name
will always be associated, and no doubt looking forward with joy
to returning to his accustomed work and surroundings here. The
vast transportation system over which he so well presided, and to
which he gave fresh life, has just paid him well earned tribute
in those moments of organized, concerted, silence stretching
across this continent--the awed hush of reverent respect and
tender sympathy from every section of the railway service and
from every rank and class in the community at large. It was a
moving incident, but only a slight indication of the esteem in
which he was held everywhere, and of the loss which the railways
and the people have sustained.

“Mr. Hays came to Montreal in 1896, shortly after I came here,
and since then it has been my privilege to know him well, and
to meet him frequently in university and other affairs. Only a
short time before Mr. Hays left for Europe I had a walk with him,
when he talked to me of his plans for the future, and discussed
university and other educational matters, with the grave and
serious hope for future advancement which marked his thought.
Little then did either of us think it possible that so terrible
a disaster should cut short his vigorous and useful career. He
was a real leader of men, a true captain of industry, carrying
a huge burden of work and responsibility on his shoulders, and
always carrying it as a strong Christian man should. We shall go
forth from this solemn service to our customary duties, graver
and sadder men. It may be that we shall not have the melancholy
duty of following to the grave the remains of this man whose
work interlinked a vast continent. He has found his grave in the
ocean, and it may be literally said of him that the whole world
is his tomb. Certainly his memory will not soon die; for long
will the memory live of this impressive memorial of his sad fate
and the sorrow of his stricken family. And when the far-reaching
plans for which he stood sponsor are realized we shall often go
back in thought to what this city, this dominion and the empire
at large owes to the ability, the integrity and dauntless energy
of Charles Melville Hays.”

One of the glowing and well deserved tributes paid to the memory
of Charles Melville Hays was spoken by Rev. T. S. McWilliams. D.
D., of Cleveland, Ohio, who said: “The man whose loss we mourn
today, and whose memory we would honor was not merely a national,
he was an international figure. The great enterprise of which
he was at the head, and, to an unusual degree the guiding and
animating spirit, was not merely a national, but an international
railway. It seems fitting therefore that one from the United
States should have a small part in this memorial service. The
humble tribute which I bring is not merely that of a former
pastor--as such I was privileged to say a few words on Sunday
last. Nor is my tribute that of a personal friend--as such my
place would not be here in the pulpit, but in position with the
mourners, amongst those who most deeply and genuinely feel a
sense of personal loss. Mine is the privilege today of bringing a
neighboring nation’s tribute, if you will; of assuring you that
many of the American people share with you the sorrow and sense
of loss which you feel so keenly. In the United States the late
Charles M. Hays was born, and there he spent the larger part of
his life. Of our country he remained a citizen to the last. Yet
there were few men more genuinely devoted to the interests of
Canada or more intelligently attached to British institutions
than he. Few, if any, in Canada saw with clearer vision the great
possibilities of the future of your country and believed more
intensely in the great destinies of Canada.

“To speak of Mr. Hays’ preeminent ability as a railway man is
scarcely necessary. We have only to look around to see the
monuments to his genius. There are two immense office buildings
that ornament your city; there is that wonderful steel bridge
over Niagara’s gorge and the great station at Ottawa. There
is the rejuvenated and vastly extended Grand Trunk Railway.
And, perhaps greatest of all, there is the Grand Trunk Pacific
Railway, destined at no distant date to span this continent,
making accessible natural resources of incalculable value, and
bringing into practical part of the national progress vast
regions at present inaccessible to the agriculturist. These are
great enterprises which have attracted the admiring attention of
the world and stimulated rival systems to greater activity, while
bringing millions in money to your land, and, what means much
more to you, an unprecedented tide of immigration. It is but just
to say that such enterprises as these have been no small factor
in the building up of that great progress and prosperity which
characterizes Canada at the present time.

“The credit of such achievements is, of course, to be shared
with Mr. Hays’ earnest colaborers--and he would have been the
first to give them such credit--but to Mr. Hays is certainly
due the credit of the initiative. For a man at the early age
of thirty-eight years to rise from the bottom of the ladder
to the presidency of such a railway system as the Wabash, and
later to be selected as president of the Grand Trunk, charged
with its rehabilitation, and to so conduct its affairs that
after only five years its securities had enhanced in value by
eighty-six millions of dollars; to be called to the presidency
of the Southern Pacific, and then called back again to the Grand
Trunk to consummate yet vaster plans--these are proofs positive
and sufficient of his preeminent railway genius. The tribute
of silence in which we a few minutes ago reverently joined--a
silence in which we were joined by that great army of employes
from ocean to ocean--was not the silence of obedience to an
enforced order. It was the genuine heart-felt tribute of men of
all ranks to a leader whom they had loved and lost.

“The contagion of his example spread through every part of
that great system. Himself a hard and rapid worker his own
example was a sufficient incentive to do away with indolence and
incompetence. His presence anywhere on the system encouraged and
thrilled to better work not by fear of the tyrant’s command to
go, but they thrilled at the leader’s call to come.

“Mr. Hays was first, last and all the time a great railway man.
But it would be unjust to speak merely of that. He possessed
other qualities that impressed me even more than that. He was
throughout his life a man of lofty and unbending principle. I
personally know that his early ending of his connection with
a great railway system, sacrificing a position to which was
attached great honor and an immense salary, and his going out of
that office, not knowing whither he went, was a wonderful example
of the triumph of principle over what appeared to be personal
interests. It stands as a proof of Mr. Hays’ unwillingness to be
the tool of a designing genius no matter what that might seem to
offer him in the way of personal remuneration. And in the great
positions he held it was his constant endeavor to be just to all.
It was his endeavor by day and his prayer by night to always
carry an even balance between the employes of his company and
those who had invested their living in it with even justice to
both. Knowledge of this permeated the whole system, and brought a
realization amongst the men that the main endeavor of the leader
was not to get out of the employes as much as possible and give
them in return as little as possible, but that they were really
working with, not for, their president, in the interests of all.

“And he was a public-spirited man in many other spheres. That
he was a generous friend of education is proven in that he
was a governor of McGill University; that he was a benefactor
to suffering humanity is shown by the hospitals of which he
was a governor. But far more than these public positions were
innumerable cases in which he proved himself a generous but
unostentatious friend to the needy. And may I for a moment draw
aside the sacred veil, and speak of his home life. As a father,
husband, brother, comrade, to all in his household he was ever
the genial, pure, high-minded Christian gentleman--the idol of
his home, as he deserved to be. His religious influence was
unmistakable and caused him inevitably to work for the right. I
am confident that his deep religious sense of duty was at the
bottom of much that we admire in his career--he was utterly
honest, not because he believed it to be the best business
policy, but because he had faith in the right; he was filled with
genial optimism, not from blindness to the facts, but because he
knew them.

“That such lives should be allowed to be interrupted by such
disasters as that we now mourn is a problem which cannot be
satisfactorily answered. It may be said that no man’s place is
impossible to be filled. But Methodism has never found another
John Wesley, and the Grand Trunk will look and wait for long
before it finds another Charles Melville Hays.”


DOUGALL CUSHING.

One of the most able, successful and progressive of the younger
generation of professional men in Montreal is Dougall Cushing,
connected with important legal interests as a member of the firm
of Barron & Cushing, notaries. He is a native son of the city,
born May 3, 1886, his parents being Charles and Lily (Macaulay)
Cushing. The family is of old American establishment, the
great-grandfather of the subject of this review, Job Cushing,
having been born in Massachusetts in 1765. The father was born in
May, 1848, and he was for a number of years the senior member of
the firm of Cushing & Barron and known as an able and reliable
notary. He was in addition a director in the Sun Life Assurance
Company, on the board of governors of the Young Men’s Christian
Association and deacon in Calvary Congregational church, a man
of wide interests, high standards and useful and important
accomplishments. His death occurred September 30, 1910. He and
his wife became the parents of seven children, R. Macaulay,
Dougall of this review, Charles, Arthur, Eric, Geoffrey and Edith.

Dougall Cushing was reared in his parents’ home and acquired
his preliminary education in the grammar and high schools of
Montreal. He afterward attended McGill University, from which
he was graduated B. A. in 1907 and B. C. L. in 1910. In the
following year he established himself as a notary in his native
city, associating himself with Robert H. Barron, his father’s
former partner. The firm of Barron & Cushing is today, as it
has been for many years past, one of the strongest of its kind
in the city, for Dougall Cushing has followed closely in his
father’s footsteps, and has proved himself brilliant, reliable
and energetic in the conduct of his professional interests.

Mr. Cushing belongs to Phi Kappa Pi, which he joined in McGill
University and is a member of the Seventeenth Regiment, Duke
of York’s Royal Canadian Hussars. He is one of the popular and
enterprising young men of Montreal and has already gained a
creditable place in a profession in which his superior merit and
ability will undoubtedly win for him ultimate distinction.


HON. SAMUEL GALE.

Hon. Samuel Gale, one of the ablest members of the legal
profession in his day, and a very prominent citizen of Montreal,
died in that city on Saturday, April 15, 1865. He was the son
of a Mr. Gale who, born in Hampshire, England, came to America
in 1770 as assistant paymaster to the forces. He married there
a Miss Wells, of Brattleboro, and soon after left the army, and
took up his residence in the colony of New York. During the
Revolution he stood firmly by the old flag under which he had
served, and was for some time imprisoned as a loyalist. After the
Revolution, he came to reside in Canada, upon an estate granted
to his wife’s father by the crown, as indemnification for the
losses brought upon him as a loyalist in the Revolution. He was
subsequently secretary to Governor Prescott, whom he accompanied
to England, and there assisted to defend him from the attacks
made upon his administration. While there he wrote an essay on
Public Credit, addressed and submitted to Pitt. The following is
the inscription on his tombstone at Farnham, in Shefford county:

“Here rests Samuel Gale, Esq., formerly acting deputy paymaster
general of H. Majesty’s forces in the Southern Provinces, now
the U. S. of America; subsequently Secretary to H. E. the
Governor-in-chief of H. M. dominions in N. A.; Author of Essays
on Public Credit, and other works; born at Kimpton Hants,
England, October 14, 1748; died at Farnham, June 27, 1826.”

Samuel Gale of this review was born at St. Augustine, East
Florida, in 1783. He was educated at Quebec, while his father was
secretary, and came to study law at Montreal under Chief Justice
Sewell, in 1802, having Chief Justice Rolland and Mr. Papineau
as fellow students. Mr. Gale was admitted to the bar in 1808,
and ere long secured a large practice. In 1815 he was appointed
a magistrate in the Indian territories, and accompanied Lord
Selkirk when he went to the northwest. Later, when Lord Dalhousie
was attacked for his Canadian administration, Mr. Gale went home
as bearer of memorials from the English-speaking Lower Canadians
in the townships and elsewhere, defending his lordship’s conduct.
In 1829, he became chairman of the quarter sessions, and in
1834 was raised to the bench to replace Mr. Justice Uniacke,
who preferred to resign the seat on the bench to which he had
just been appointed rather than come back to Montreal during the
cholera, then raging here. Judge Gale retired from the bench in
1849, forced into retirement by continued ill health and the
gradual coming on of the infirmities of old age.

[Illustration: HON. SAMUEL GALE]

He had married in 1839 a Miss Hawley, of St. Armand West, by whom
he had three daughters. Mrs. Gale died in September, 1849. Of the
daughters the only one now living is Anna R., widow of T. Sterry
Hunt, of Montreal, who is mentioned elsewhere in this work; while
of the other two, Agnes Logan married Andrew Stuart of Quebec,
a son of Chief Justice Stuart and of a very prominent family in
that city, and the third became the Baroness von Friesen, who
died December 10, 1875, in Berlin, Germany.

Born of parents who had both suffered for their loyal adherence
to the British Crown during the American Revolution, and educated
in their views Mr. Gale was, as long as he busied himself in
politics, a stanch conservative and defender of British unity and
British supremacy. He wrote a series of letters to the Montreal
Herald (in those days the organ of the stoutest conservatism)
over the signature of “Nerva” which produced a strong impression
on the public mind at that time; and in espousing the cause of
Lord Dalhousie and upholding the old constitution (under the
title constitutionalists taken by the conservatives of that day)
against the advocates of democracy or responsible government, he
was but consistently pursuing the course on which he first set
out. While upon the bench he maintained in an elaborate and very
able judgment the right of the Crown to establish martial law
here in 1837, refusing to theorize about what abstract rights man
had or ought to have, declaring simply and firmly what the law,
as he read it, established the prerogative of the sovereign to be
in a colony. Both as a lawyer and judge he won the respect of his
confreres alike by his ability and learning.

For many years previous to his death he was deeply interested in
the freedom of the slave. He could not speak with patience of
any compromise with slavery and waxed indignant in denunciation
of all who in any way aided, abetted, or even countenanced it.
When the Anderson case was before the Upper Canada courts he
was one of the most active among those who aroused agitation
here. When the Prince of Wales visited this country he got up a
congratulatory address from the colored people of Canada which,
however, was not received, as the prince was desired by the Duke
of Newcastle, not to recognize differences of race and creed
wherever it could be helped.

Judge Gale was a man of high principle and ever bore an
unblemished moral character. Once in his early career at the bar
he was forced by the then prevailing customs of society to fight
a duel. His antagonist was Sir James Stuart, who had quarreled
with him in court and Mr. Gale was severely wounded. It was an
event which, we believe, he profoundly regretted, and gladly saw
the better day dawn when men ran no risk of forfeiting their
position as gentlemen by refusing to shoot, or be shot at, in
order to redress real or fancied insults. He was a scrupulously
just man, most methodical and punctual in business matters. There
were in his writings great care, and precision and clearness of
language. In his letters, too, and even in signing his name, the
same trait was observable. He often used to condemn the stupid
custom of men who signed their names with a flourish, yet so
illegibly that no one could read, but only guess at, the word
intended. He was not ostentatious of his charities, yet they were
not lacking. Some years before his demise he made a gift of land
to Bishop’s College, Lennoxville, and during the last months of
his life, when age and illness were day by day wearing him out,
he found relief for his own distress in aiding to relieve that of
the needy and afflicted.

With him passed away one more of those men, who link the creative
past, in which were laid the foundations of our civilization,
with the bustling present and of whom the generation of today
knows naught; of men more proud and precise in their manners
than we are; and of such rectitude and sense of honor, that we
feel deeply the loss of the influence of their example. A loyal
subject, a learned and upright judge, a kind, true, steadfast
friend, was lost to the community in Judge Gale.


ROLLO CAMPBELL, M. D.

Dr. Rollo Campbell, of whom it was said that no man ever spoke
ill, was the son of Dr. Francis W. Campbell and was born in
Montreal on the 6th of June, 1864. His life record covered a
comparatively brief span. He was educated under private tutors
and in Bishop’s College, where he pursued his professional
course, being graduated from that institution at Lennoxville, P.
Q., with honors in the class of 1886, at which time the M. D.
degree was conferred upon him. His early professional experience
came to him as interne in the Western Hospital at Montreal, where
he remained for a year, gaining the wide knowledge and training
that only hospital practice can bring. He then went to Europe,
pursuing his studies in London and in Edinburgh. Upon returning
to his native land he located in Montreal for practice and it was
not long before he had established an enviable reputation as a
conscientious, capable physician of untiring energy, thoroughly
devoted to his profession and ever ready to do a kindness to
those in need of his services. He was especially interested in
surgery and his researches along that line were broad and varied.

From the time of his graduation Dr. Campbell was on the teaching
staff of Bishop’s College, first as demonstrator of anatomy,
to which he was appointed in 1897, and later as professor of
surgery. For many years he was on the consulting staff of the
Montreal Dispensary and was one of the assistant surgeons of the
Western Hospital, in which institution he was greatly interested.
He was likewise an examiner for the New York Life Insurance
Company.

A feature in his professional connections was his service as
surgeon for seventeen years of the Fifth Royal Scots of Canada,
in which regiment he was very popular. At one time he was
president of Bishop’s Medical College Graduates’ Society and he
was physician to several fraternal societies. He also belonged to
the Montreal Medico-Chirurgical Society and along more strictly
social lines he was connected with the Metropolitan Club, the
Montreal Military Institute and the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association. Of the latter he was a life member and was captain
of the Bicycle Club of that organization.

Dr. Campbell was married in Montreal in 1892 in St. Paul’s
Presbyterian church to Miss Marion May Fletcher, a daughter of
Henry Fletcher, who for thirty years was tide surveyor of the
port of Montreal, and his wife, whose maiden name was Margaret
Ann McInnes. Dr. and Mrs. Campbell became parents of two
children: Gladys Agnes and Edith Margaret. The family circle
was broken by the hand of death when on the 31st of May, 1904,
Dr. Campbell passed away. Speaking of him at this time a fellow
graduate of Bishop’s College said: “He was a fine fellow. I
think I can safely say that I never heard anyone speak ill of
him. He was kind and thoughtful and devoted himself to his work.
In fact, I fear that he worked too hard on account of that
conscientiousness which would not allow of his neglecting any
seeming duty. He will be greatly missed, not only by his fellow
practitioners, but by all who knew him and respected him.”


ROBERT KURCZYN LOVELL.

While Robert Kurczyn Lovell entered upon a business already
established, he has displayed the enterprise and determination
which are among his salient characteristics in the methods which
he has followed in conducting his business affairs. Montreal
numbers him among her native sons, but he comes of Irish and
German ancestry. He is the eldest son of the late John Lovell,
who was a prominent publisher of Montreal from 1835 until his
death in 1893. His mother is Mrs. Sarah Lovell, a daughter of N.
P. M. Kurczyn, who was a German merchant of Montreal.

In the acquirement of his education Robert K. Lovell passed
through consecutive grades to the high school. In 1867 he became
connected with his father in business, becoming a partner in 1880
and so continuing until the latter’s death in July, 1893. The
business was conducted under the same style until 1903 when it
was incorporated. Since 1903 he has been president of the firm of
John Lovell & Son, Ltd., publishers of Lovell’s Gazetteer of the
Dominion of Canada and Newfoundland, Lovell’s Montreal Directory,
Lovell’s Montreal Business Directory and numerous other
publications. In all of his business affairs he never deviates
from the highest standards. He is an Anglican in religious faith.


WILLIAM OKELL HOLDEN DODDS.

For over twenty years Major William O. H. Dodds has been
connected with the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
being at present the assistant manager for Quebec and the
maritime provinces. He was born in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, July
3, 1867, a son of the late Charles Dodds, a manufacturer of that
province, who died in June, 1893. The mother of our subject, who
was before her marriage Miss Agnes Smith, died in December, 1910.

William Dodds received his education in the Yarmouth high school
and the Yarmouth Academy of Yarmouth, Nova Scotia. He completed
his school education in 1884 and then entered the employ of
the Bank of Yarmouth, remaining with that institution until
1887. From 1887 to 1888 he assisted his father in the wholesale
and retail dry-goods business, but in the latter year came to
Montreal, entering the wholesale dry-goods trade, with which line
he continued until 1892. In that year he joined the staff of the
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York as cashier and, rising
through various positions, was made the assistant manager of the
concern for Quebec and the maritime provinces, which office he
yet holds. Mr. Dodds has also been one of the promoters of the
Consumers’ Cotton Company.

On November 29, 1910, Mr. Dodds married Jean Hamilton Holt,
eldest daughter of Robert W. Tyre, of Montreal. Mrs. Dodds is
greatly interested in athletics and in 1911 was elected president
of the Ladies’ Montreal Curling Club.

Major Dodds is also a well known amateur athlete. He was formerly
president of the Canadian Amateur Athletic Union; is a member
of the executive committee of the Amateur Skating Association
of Canada; and was selected as one of the team of the Montreal
Curling Club to proceed to Scotland in December, 1908, but
was unable to go. He has long been in the volunteer military
service, being formerly a captain in the Fifth Regiment, Royal
Scots. He subsequently commanded the Third Battery, Montreal,
and then organized the Twenty-first (Westmount) Battery, which
he commanded from October 26, 1907, to April 9, 1910. He is
now engaged in the reorganization of the First Regiment,
Grenadier Guards of Canada. In January, 1906, Major Dodds was
elected president of the Montreal Military Institute and is now
councillor of the Boy Scout movement.

Mr. Dodds is a Presbyterian and gives his political support to
the conservative party. He is a member of the Montreal Club,
the Montreal Military Institute, the Montreal Curling Club, the
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association, the Montreal Hunt Club,
the St. James Club, the Royal Montreal Golf Club and others.


ISAIE PREFONTAINE.

Isaie Prefontaine, no less highly esteemed for his business
capacity and enterprise than for his public-spirited citizenship,
has contributed along various lines to the welfare and progress
of the city in which he makes his home. A native of Beloeil, he
was born in 1861 and in the pursuit of his education attended
Montreal College, from which he was graduated with honors. From
the outset of his career he has made his labors count as factors
in general progress and improvement. He has been a close student
of conditions and problems of the time and along practical lines
has worked for betterment.

He has taken a warm interest in the commercial development of
the city and has been prominently identified with various bodies
working toward that end. He was president of the Chamber of
Commerce of Montreal for the year 1908-9 and for six years was
president of the School of High Commercial Studies. In 1909
he became president of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce
for the province of Quebec and was continued in that high and
important office for three years. He has also been a member of
the Board of Trade and has been a cordial cooperator in the
movement for providing facilities for specialized instruction
and training of those engaged in manufacturing and other
industrial pursuits.

[Illustration: ISAIE PREFONTAINE]

His wide research and investigation enable him to speak with
authority upon many questions bearing upon the business condition
of the city and its possibilities for progress along industrial
and commercial lines. He is an idealist, whose methods are
practical, and is a man of action rather than of theory.

In 1883 he married Miss Eliza Pigeon, a daughter of Olivier
Pigeon, of Vercheres, Quebec. He belongs to both the Club St.
Denis and the Canadian Club and in the city has a wide and
favorable acquaintance. The Montreal Herald has termed him “a man
of capacity and high character.”


FRANCIS WAYLAND CAMPBELL, M. D.

Dr. Francis Wayland Campbell, practitioner, educator and editor
of medical journals, winning distinction along each line, was
born in Montreal on the 5th of November, 1837, a son of the late
Rollo Campbell, at one time publisher of the Montreal Daily
Pilot and a native of Perthshire, Scotland. Dr. Campbell’s more
specifically literary education was obtained at Dutton Academy
and the Baptist College, and in preparation for a professional
career he studied medicine in McGill University, from which he
was graduated with the M. D. degree in 1860. He at once located
for practice in his native city, where he continued until his
death. After the completion of his course at McGill he spent some
time in study abroad, investigating the methods and watching the
clinics of eminent physicians and surgeons of London, Dublin,
Edinburgh and Glasgow. In 1861 he passed with high rank an
examination before the Royal College of Physicians of London.

In October, 1861, Dr. Campbell married Miss Agnes Stuart Rodger,
of Greenock, Scotland, and in November returned with his bride
to Canada, opening an office for practice in Montreal. Success
came to him almost immediately because his equipment was good and
because of his recognition of and marked devotion to the duties
of the profession. He was offered the editorship of the hospital
report department of the British-American Journal, accepted it
and continued to serve in that connection until 1864, when the
publication of the paper ceased. The Canada Medical Journal
was soon afterward started and Dr. Campbell joined Dr. Fenwick
in its editorial management, being thus associated from 1864
until 1872. In the meantime he had joined the medical faculty of
Bishop’s College, whereupon Dr. Fenwick declined to associate
with him any longer in the publication of the Canada Medical
Journal. The result was the discontinuance of that paper. Dr.
Campbell decided to contest the field with Dr. Fenwick, who began
issuing the paper independently, the Campbell publication being
known as the Canada Medical Record, of which he remained editor
and proprietor until his demise. In 1872 Dr. Campbell joined
Drs. David, Smallwood, Hingston and Trenholme in organizing the
medical faculty of Bishop’s College, after which he was appointed
professor of physiology and was elected by the faculty as their
registrar. His writings were considered a valuable contribution
to the literature of the profession and his publications were
liberally patronized by those holding to the highest professional
standards.

Dr. Campbell was a member of the volunteer militia from 1854 and
in 1860 was appointed assistant surgeon of the First Battalion,
Volunteer Rifles of Canada, now the First Battalion. He served
with his regiment on the eastern frontier, being at Hemingford
and at Durham during the Fenian raid in 1866. In the fall of that
year he was promoted to the rank of surgeon of the regiment and
again during the brief Fenian raid of 1871 was with his command
at Pigeon Hill, at St. Armands and St. Johns. After being for a
great many years surgeon of the Prince of Wales Rifles he was
appointed, on the formation of the Regular Canadian Militia, to
the office of surgeon of the Infantry School Corps at St. Johns,
Province of Quebec, and held the position for nineteen years,
being then retired at the age limit with the rank of surgeon
lieutenant colonel. At that time the regiments were known and
still are as the Royal Regiments Canadian Infantry. In 1894 he
established the V. R. I. Magazine and became its first editor.
Lennoxville conferred upon him the honorary degree of D. C. L. in
1895. Two years later his son, Dr. Rollo Campbell, was appointed
demonstrator of anatomy in Bishop’s College. Another matter of
interest and importance in the life record of Dr. Campbell was
that he held for forty-three years the position of chief medical
examiner for the New York Life Insurance Company at Montreal and
his son, Dr. Rollo Campbell, was his assistant. He was honorary
president of the Military Institute for several years and was
one of the founders of the Western Hospital of Montreal. He was
called the father of that institution and two years ago the
hospital placed a very handsome bronze tablet to his memory in
the institution. At the time of his death he was dean of the
medical faculty of Bishop’s College at Montreal. His degrees were
M. A., M. D. and L. R. C. P. of London. Honor and distinction
came to him in many ways, and at all times he bore his honors
with becoming modesty.

Dr. Campbell was a liberal conservative in politics. He belonged
to the Montreal Military Institute and was a past master of the
Victoria Lodge of Masons. Of scholarly attainments, finding keen
pleasure in scientific research and actuated, too, by a broad
humanitarian spirit, his professional service as practitioner,
educator and writer was of marked value to the public and
constituted a notable contribution to the world’s work in the
field of medical and surgical progress.


CLEOPHAS EDWARD LECLERC.

Cleophas Edward Leclerc, who for fifteen years was a member of
the board of notaries of Quebec, his home being in Montreal,
his native city, was born September 26, 1844. Almost his entire
life was passed in Montreal, where he supplemented his early
education by a classical course in the College of Ste. Therese de
Blainville in the district of Terrebonne. Having determined to
become a notary public, he entered upon his professional studies
under the direction of Mr. F. Des Bastien, registrar of the
county of Vaudreuil, and was admitted to practice on the 15th of
October, 1866. For fifteen years he was a member of the Quebec
board of notaries and for three years was its vice president. He
stood high in his profession, and the clientage afforded him came
in recognition of his superior ability.

On the 16th of November, 1875, Mr. Leclerc was married to Miss
Caroline Eliza Archambault of St. Hyacinthe, and they became
the parents of six children: Robertine; Rene, who is managing
director of the Credit-Canada, Limited; Achille; Alice, the wife
of Arthur Hubour, who is engaged in the drug business at the
corner of Demontigny and St. Denis Streets; Ovide; and Rita.
Death came to Mr. Leclerc at his home at No. 655 St. Hubert
Street on the 23d of November, 1912, when he was sixty-eight
years of age. He was a man of fine personal appearance, his
broad forehead indicating strong native intelligence. He was
of dignified appearance and mien and looked at life from the
standpoint of one who recognized its obligations and duties as
well as its privileges and opportunities. He had an extensive
circle of friends so that his death was deeply regretted by many
outside his own household.


GEORGE CAVERHILL.

Prominent on the roll of leading business men of Montreal stands
the name of George Caverhill, a merchant who for an extended
period has been connected with commercial life and figures
prominently in connection with corporate interests having to
do with the business enterprise and consequent prosperous
development of the city. He was born October 18, 1858, at
Beauharnois, P. Q., and is of Scotch descent. His parents were
Thomas and Elizabeth Spiers (Buchanan) Caverhill, the latter a
representative of the Buchanan family of Lenny, while the former
was a member of the border family of Caverhills, residents of
Scotland from 1200.

In the attainment of his education George Caverhill attended
successively the Montreal high school, the Galt Collegiate
Institute and McGill University. From the outset of his business
career he has been connected with mercantile interests. In 1877
he entered the employ of Crathern & Caverhill, of Montreal,
and, later ambitious to engage in business on his own account,
utilized the opportunities of becoming a partner in a wholesale
hardware firm, his partners being his brother, the late Frank
Caverhill, J. B. Learmont and T. H. Newman. The four organized
the firm of Caverhill, Learmont & Company, wholesale hardware
merchants of both Montreal and Winnipeg. This by no means
indicates the scope of his investments and his activities.
That he is today one of the most important business men of the
province is indicated in the fact that he is vice president of
the Montreal Loan & Mortgage Company, a director of the Dominion
Iron & Steel Company, Canadian Cottons, Ltd., Montreal Trust
Company, Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company, and is identified
with a number of organizations to promote trade and business
relations. In 1904 he was chosen president of the Montreal Metal
& Hardware Association, was made first vice president of the
Montreal Board of Trade in 1906 and its president in 1907.

In 1887 Mr. Caverhill was married to Miss Emily Margaret,
daughter of John Caverhill. She takes active interest in
philanthropical and charitable work and is a member of the
general committee of the Victorian Order of Nurses. Together with
her husband, she is a life governor of the Protestant Hospital
for the Insane. Both Mr. and Mrs. Caverhill were presented to the
late King Edward at Windsor Castle in June, 1905.

In addition to his previously mentioned activities, Mr. Caverhill
is a governor of the Montreal General Hospital, and is a life
member of St. Andrew’s Society of Montreal. He has a great love
of animals and has won fully two hundred and sixty prizes with
his kennel of skye terriers. Mr. Caverhill’s political allegiance
is given to the liberal party, and in 1911 he opposed the
Taft-Fielding reciprocity compact. Prominent in club circles,
he holds membership with the Mount Royal, St. James, Canada,
Canadian, Forest and Stream, Lachine Boating and Canoe, Montreal
Hunt, Montreal Jockey, Montreal Polo, Reform, Royal Montreal
Golf and Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Clubs, all of Montreal. He is
a man of liberal culture and broad general information, having
largely promoted his knowledge through extended travel in the
East Indies, South America, Japan, Egypt, Greece and Italy. His
opinions carry weight on all questions in which he has become
deeply interested, and his interest in any plan or project is
ever the source of activity in its support.


LOUIS JOSEPH ARTHUR SURVEYER.

Louis Joseph Arthur Surveyer, one of the best known business men
of Montreal, his ability and enterprise finding exemplification
in his substantial success, was born May 16, 1841, in the town of
Beauharnois, in the province of Quebec. His father was Dr. Joseph
Surveyer, a well known physician of Beauharnois and surrounding
parishes, and his mother bore the maiden name of Eugenie Duclos
Decelles.

L. J. A. Surveyer was educated at St. Laurent College and entered
upon his business career as a clerk in a general store in St.
Johns, P. Q. After eighteen months he came to Montreal and
entered the retail hardware store of Messrs. Ferrier & Company
on Notre Dame Street. After nine months’ service in the employ
of that firm they sold their business and Mr. Surveyer entered
the employ of Mr. Thomas Davidson in his retail store, continuing
in that employ for seven years. He was ambitious to engage in
business on his own account and so wisely used his time and
talent that he was now able with a capital of six hundred dollars
to open a store of his own. His venture proved successful from
the beginning and has been developed and built up to its present
extensive proportions so that Mr. Surveyer is now ranked with the
leading business men of the city.

In 1868 Mr. Surveyer married Miss Amelie Pelletier, who died
thirteen months later. In 1873 he married Miss M. A. Hectorine
Fabre, a daughter of the late E. R. Fabre, and the youngest
sister of the late Archbishop Fabre. Of this union there were
born eight children, seven of whom are living, as follows: Edward
Fabre, a lawyer in Montreal, of whom there is further mention
in this work; Eugenie, now Mrs. N. K. Laflamme of Montreal;
Arthur, of Surveyer & Frigon, consulting engineers; Paul, a
lawyer in Montreal; Gustave, of Montreal; Marie; and Therese, now
Mrs. Jules Faurnier of Montreal. Mr. Surveyer is a member of the
Canadian Club and of the Alliance Nationale. There is found in
his life history the strong proof of the fact that the road to
opportunity is open to ambition and energy, and that it leads to
the goal of success.

[Illustration: LOUIS J. A. SURVEYER]


NORVAL DICKSON.

Norval Dickson, practicing as a notary in Montreal in
partnership with R. B. Hutcheson, and controlling an important,
representative and growing clientage, was born in Howick, Quebec,
in 1878 and is a son of Robert Dickson who came to Canada from
Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1830.

Norval Dickson acquired his preliminary education in Huntingdon
Academy, Huntingdon, Quebec, and afterwards entered McGill
University in Montreal, receiving his Bachelor of Arts degree
in 1901 and his degree in law in 1904. Immediately afterward he
began practice in Montreal, continuing alone until May, 1910,
when he formed a partnership with R. B. Hutcheson under the firm
name of Hutcheson & Dickson. Mr. Dickson has proved an important
and helpful factor in the success of the firm, for he possesses a
deep and comprehensive knowledge of the underlying principles of
his profession and has a well deserved reputation as a reliable
and competent notary. The firm controls a growing and extensive
patronage and has a high standing in legal circles of the city.


REV. ABRAHAM DE SOLA, LL. D.

Rev. Abraham de Sola, LL. D., who for many years was so familiar
a figure in literary circles in Montreal and who earned so wide
and deserved a reputation as an Oriental scholar and theologian,
was a descendent of an illustrious Spanish-Jewish family. The
marvelous history of Israel must ever be of peculiar interest to
mankind, and perhaps no chapter in the post-biblical portion of
that history possesses more charm than that which relates about
the Jews of Spain and Portugal, or Sephardim, as they are styled.
These lived free and untrammeled during those mediæval times when
their brethren in less favored countries were weighed down by
the burden of oppression, and with the Saracens they kept alive
the flame of learning and science in the Iberian peninsula at a
time when it burnt lowest in the rest of Europe. Power, rank and
honor were theirs; and when afterwards clouds obscured the sky of
their prosperity, and the storm of persecution burst pitilessly
over their heads, their record of heroic martyrdom and thrilling
adventure is a tale as fascinating as that of many of the most
imaginative pages of fiction.

Among the many bright names which illumined Spanish-Jewish
history, that of De Sola stands prominent. The De Solas had
settled in Andalusia as early as the sixth century, whence
they had come from Judea by gradual stages through northern
Africa. They held various offices under the Saracenic caliphs at
Toledo and Cordova, and afterwards when they removed to Navarre
they were received with like favor by the Gothic princes. From
their estate in this province, their surname had its origin.
A particularly distinguished member of the family was Don
Bartolomeu de Sola, who, in reward for his services, was ennobled
and, after being a minister of state, held for a while the
position of viceroy of Navarre.

During the fourteenth century another De Sola distinguished
himself fighting under the Infante of Aragon and figured
conspicuously in the Spanish wars of that period. During the
succeeding centuries the family continued to hold an illustrious
place, owing to the large number of eminent scholars, physicians
and statesmen it produced. Their fortunes, however, changed when
King Ferdinand, having by the conquest of Granada destroyed
the last vestige of Moorish power in Spain, decided to drive
therefrom all who did not conform to the dominant faith; and in
1492 was promulgated the terrible edict of expulsion, which,
at one blow, deprived hundreds of thousands of Spain’s most
intelligent and industrious inhabitants of happy and prosperous
homes. The De Solas took refuge in Holland, but a branch of the
family continued to hold business connections with Lisbon, and
eventually some of them settled in the Portuguese capital, where
they amassed much wealth. Watched by the Inquisition, they, like
many other Portuguese Jews, for some time evaded the danger by
assuming to become Marannos or Nuevos Christianos--as converted
Jews were styled--while they secretly remained loyal to Judaism.
In the latter part of the seventeenth century, however, suspicion
was directed towards them, and David de Sola (who to elude his
persecutors had assumed the name of Bartolome) was apprehended
and charged with having relapsed into Judaism. Although placed
under the most fearful torture nothing seems to have been proved,
as he was allowed to afterwards go free; but he was physically
broken down by his terrible sufferings. Escape from the country
by a suspect was then extremely difficult, but in the next
generation his son, Aaron de Sola, managed to secure refuge on
board a British man-of-war and to make good his escape with his
family to England; not, however, before two of his relatives
had been imprisoned, tortured and condemned to death at an
auto-da-fé, by the Inquisition, for secret adherence to Judaism.

It was in 1749 that Aaron de Sola fled with his wife and family
to England, and now that they were freed from the terrors of
the Inquisition they openly avowed once more their loyalty to
the faith of their fathers. From England they took passage for
Holland, where they rejoined their relatives, and taking up their
residence in Amsterdam they soon again rose to distinction in the
various learned professions.

Previously to this--in the year 1690--one of the preceding
generation, Isaac de Sola, had settled in London and had acquired
a high reputation in the Hebrew community there as an eloquent
preacher and author. Several volumes of his works are still
extant.

Four sons had accompanied Aaron de Sola in his flight from Lisbon
in 1749, of whom the eldest, David, was the great-grandfather
of the Dr. Abraham de Sola who forms the chief subject of this
sketch. The youngest of Aaron de Sola’s, sons, Dr. Benjamin de
Sola, attained to a foremost place among the practitioners of
the eighteenth century. He was court physician to William V of
the Netherlands and was the author of a large number of medical
works. The other two sons of Aaron de Sola settled in Curacao,
and one of them was the grandfather of General Juan de Sola, who
became so distinguished as a commander of cavalry under Bolivar
and Paez when the South American states revolted from Spain. He
took part in the decisive battle of Carabobo, and led the charge
on Puerto Cabello when that city was stormed by Paez, receiving a
sabre wound during the fight. After the restoration of peace he
held important public offices during the Paez regime.

The Rev. Abraham de Sola, LL. D., was born in London, England,
on the 18th of September, 1825. His father, David Aaron de Sola,
was senior minister of the Portuguese Jews of London, to which
city he had been called from Amsterdam, and was eminent as a
Hebrew author, having produced among many other works an elegant
translation of the Jewish Forms of Prayer; also, in conjunction
with Dr. Raphael, an edition of Genesis, very valuable to
biblical students on account of its commentaries and copious
notes, and the first English translation of Eighteen Treatises of
the Mishna. His mother was the daughter of Dr. Raphael Meldola,
chief rabbi of the Spanish-Jewish congregations of Britain. The
Meldolas had given eminent chief rabbis to Europe for twelve
generations. Abraham de Sola received careful tuition in all
the usual branches of a liberal education. He became early
engrossed in the study of Oriental languages and literature and
of theology, and continued to devote his attention to those
subjects until he acquired that profound knowledge of them
which subsequently won him so prominent a place among scholars.
Having been offered the position of rabbi of the Spanish and
Portuguese Jewish Congregation of Montreal he accepted the call
and arrived in this city in the beginning of 1847, and here,
for over thirty-five years, he continued to minister to the
spiritual wants of his people. His able pulpit discourses soon
attracted attention. Dr. de Sola’s abilities, however, were not
destined to be confined exclusively to his official duties.
Before leaving London he had been associated in the editorial
work of a Hebrew journal, The Voice of Jacob, and soon after his
arrival in Canada he delivered a course of lectures on Jewish
history before the Mercantile Literary Association. In 1848 he
published his “Notes on the Jews of Persia under Mohammed Shah,”
and also “A History of the Jews of Persia.” Within the same year
there appeared his important work on “Scripture Zoology.” Soon
afterwards he published his “Lectures on the Mosaic Cosmogony.”
This was followed by his “Cosmography of Peritsol,” a work
displaying such erudition that it gained a wide circulation in
Europe and was reprinted there in several languages. His next
work, “A Commentary upon Samuel Hannagid’s Introduction to the
Talmud,” was a book which deservedly attracted much attention,
owing to the light which it threw upon an interesting portion of
rabbinical literature and to its depth of Talmudic knowledge.
In 1853 he published, conjointly with the Rev. J. J. Lyons, of
New York, a work on the Jewish Calendar System, chiefly valuable
on account of its excellent prefatory treatise upon the Jewish
system of calculating time.

Dr. de Sola’s mastery of Semitic languages and literature early
attracted the notice of our learned bodies, and, after first
acting as lecturer, he was, in 1853, appointed professor of
Hebrew and Oriental literature at McGill University. The high
abilities which he displayed as occupant of this chair proved the
wisdom of the appointment, and he continued to hold the position
during the rest of his life.

For some time Dr. de Sola had been engaged in the preparation of
one of his most important productions, “The Sanatory Institutions
of the Hebrews.” The work was published in two parts and was an
exhaustive exposition of the hygienic laws of the Hebrews, as
exhibited in both Scriptural and rabbinical writings, critically
examined in the light of modern scientific knowledge. It was a
production which evinced how deeply the author had penetrated
into scientific as well as rabbinical paths of learning. Shortly
afterwards he published a supplemental work to it, entitled
“Behemoth Hatemeoth.”

The prominence to which Dr. de Sola had now reached among men of
letters led McGill University to confer upon him the degree of
LL. D. in 1858.

In 1860, Dr. Hall, the editor of The British American Journal,
devoted to physical and medical science, induced Dr. de Sola
to assist that publication with his pen, and, among other
contributions, his series of articles “Upon the Employment of
Anaesthetics in Cases of Labor, in Connection with Jewish Law,”
call for particular mention.

Dr. de Sola’s wide range of studies had made him very popular
both as a public lecturer and as a contributor to various
literary papers. The themes of some of these were afterwards
much amplified by him and republished in their elaborated and
completed form. At comparatively short intervals he gave to the
public his works on “Scripture Botany,” “Sinaitic Inscriptions,”
“Hebrew Numismatics,” “The Ancient Hebrews as Promoters of the
Arts and Sciences,” “The Rise and Progress of the Great Hebrew
Colleges,” and “Philological Studies in Hebrew and the Aramaic
Languages.” Turning his attention again to Jewish history, he, in
1869, wrote his interesting “Life of Shabethai Tsevi, the False
Messiah.” The following year he completed his “History of the
Jews of Poland,” and in 1871 he published his “History of the
Jews of France.”

Dr. de Sola closely identified himself with many of our literary
and scientific associations, notably with the Natural History
Society, in which he was an active colaborer of Sir William
Dawson and Sir William Logan. He was for many years president
of the society and received H. R. H. Prince Arthur (afterwards
Duke of Connaught) when that prince visited the society in 1870.
His address upon “The Study of Natural Science,” delivered upon
that occasion, called forth a letter of approbation from Queen
Victoria.

During all his intense literary activity Dr. de Sola was taking
a very prominent part in all matters affecting the Jewish
people. His mastery of Jewish theology, in all its branches,
had earned him wide renown among his own race and had gained
him a high place among the very foremost rabbis of the day.
Convinced that the fences which orthodoxy placed around the
citadel of his ancestral faith were the best safeguards against
disintegrating forces, the upholders of historical Judaism found
in him an able and powerful champion. Equally noticeable were
his bold attacks upon the weak points of the skeptical school
of modern biblical criticism. His intimate knowledge of all
those branches of learning which bear upon this subject made him
particularly formidable in this respect. The Jewish press and
pulpit and the lecture platform were the vehicles by which he
usually reached the public on these subjects. He had, indeed,
since his first arrival in Canada been a particularly active
contributor to Jewish journals, more especially to the Occident
of Philadelphia, with which he was for years identified, being
in intimate literary relations with its editor, the gifted Isaac
Leeser.

Dr. de Sola’s ability in the pulpit led to his frequently being
invited to lecture in the United States, where he had acquired
much prominence and popularity. On the 9th of January, 1872,
he was invited by General Grant’s government to perform the
ceremony of opening the United States congress with prayer, and
for the first time was witnessed the unique spectacle of one
who was not a citizen of the United States nor of the dominant
belief officiating at the opening ceremonies at the assembling
of congress at Washington. The broad liberality of this act,
upon the part of the United States government, was fraught with
particular significance at that time, owing to the fact that
diplomatic relations between Britain and the United States
had then but lately been strained to dangerous tension by the
“Alabama Claims,” and this high compliment to a British subject
was the first evidence of the growth of a better feeling between
the two countries. Sir Edward Thornton, the British ambassador at
Washington, formally extended to Dr. de Sola the thanks of the
British government, and Mr. Gladstone--then prime minister, also
personally communicated his satisfaction.

Upon the death of Isaac Leeser, Dr. de Sola purchased the
stereotyped plates of his works and issued a new edition of
that author’s translation of the Bible according to Jewish
authorities. He also brought out a revised translation of the
Jewish Forms of Prayer, in six volumes, based upon the editions
of D. A. de Sola (his father) and of Leeser. He was invited to
become the successor of Mr. Leeser in his ministerial office but
declined. He had previously refused several similar offers.

Dr. de Sola’s onerous duties were at this time further increased
by his being offered the chair of Hebrew at the Montreal
Presbyterian College, and later on he accepted the appointment of
lecturer in Spanish literature at McGill University, a literature
and language with which he was specially familiar and to which he
was particularly attached.

But such incessant application to work could not but prove
exhaustive, and his naturally vigorous health broke down under
the strain. A year’s rest, spent in Europe, proved sufficiently
beneficial to enable him to return to some of his duties. For a
while he also resumed his contributions to the Jewish press, and
among other interesting writings we notice his “Yehuda Alcharizi
and the Book Tachkemoni.” In 1880 he published his last important
work, “Saadia Ha-Gaon,” a book giving a very valuable description
of the writings and life of one of the greatest of Jewish
philosophers and also containing an interesting account of the
court of a prince of the captivity.

But failing health was destined now to check forever the labors
of his active pen, and while in New York, on a visit to his
sister, he was taken ill and his death occurred on June 5, 1882.
The remains were brought on to Montreal and there interred. He
had not yet completed his fifty-seventh year when he passed away.

In his death the Hebrew community sustained a loss whose
magnitude could scarcely be overestimated. His self-sacrificing
devotion to the service of his race, his ceaseless labor in
everything which could elevate and promote both their moral and
intellectual welfare, his quick readiness to assuage, with kind
counsel and help, the lot of those in adversity, and the rare
talents which he had displayed in his multifarious writings, had
won for him the warmest admiration and attachment of his people
and had gained him a reputation among them that was world-wide.
His loss, indeed, was scarcely less regretted by Gentile than
by Jew, for the prominence which his scholarly attainments had
acquired for him among Canadian litterateurs, the active role
which he had for thirty-five years played in our various learned
bodies, and the distinguished position which he held in our
leading university, achieved for him an illustrious place among
Canada’s public men.

Dr. de Sola was married in 1852 to Esther Joseph, the youngest
daughter of Henry Joseph, of Berthier, one of the earliest Jewish
settlers in this country. Of his several children, the eldest
son, the Rev. Meldola de Sola, succeeded him as rabbi of the
Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue of Montreal, and another son,
Clarence I. de Sola, is general manager of the Belgian syndicate,
“Comptoir Belgo-Canadien.”


ROBERT MEIGHEN.

The history of Canada’s great industrial and commercial growth
during the past thirty or forty years is but the history of
such men as Robert Meighen one of the foremost business men
of his generation, whose intense and intelligently directed
activity constituted a potent force in the material development
and progress of not only the city and province of his adoption
but various other sections of the Dominion as well. His birth
occurred at Dungiven, near Londonderry, Ireland, April 18, 1838,
his parents being Robert and Mary (McLeghan) Meighen, whose
family numbered five children. The family history shows a long
line of Irish ancestors.

Robert Meighen was educated at Perth, Ontario, for following the
father’s death the mother brought her family to the new world,
settling at Perth, where her sons were educated and established
themselves in business as retail and wholesale merchants. The
firm of A. Meighen & Brothers has for many years been one of
the most extensive mercantile firms doing business in the
old Bathurst district. Robert Meighen carried on business in
partnership with his brother at Perth, Ontario, until 1879, when
he removed to Montreal and entered into business relations with
his brother-in-law, Sir George Stephen, later Lord Mount Stephen,
whom he succeeded as president of the New Brunswick Railway,
which now forms part of the Canadian Pacific Railway system.
Successful from the outset of his business career, Mr. Meighen
continually extended his efforts into other fields. He became
one of the founders of the Lake of the Woods Milling Company,
establishing and operating mills and elevators at Keewatin and
Portage la Prairie, which are among the largest and best equipped
in the world. Shortly after the organization of this company
Robert Meighen became its president, which position he retained
till the time of his death, directing its policy and formulating
the plans upon which the mammoth business was constructed. This
represented, however, but one phase of his activity. He
carried his efforts into many fields, none of them failing to
profit by his cooperation.

[Illustration: ROBERT MEIGHEN]

“The Gazette,” at the time of Mr. Meighen’s death, said in part:
“Mr. Meighen was a self-made man and was proud to designate
himself as such. From the day he entered business pursuits at
Perth, many years ago, down to the time he became a director of
the Canadian Pacific Railway, an institution he had championed
from its inception, in commerce, in finance and in imperial
politics, Robert Meighen was never at home except on the firing
line. Although the fact is only perhaps known to the newspaper
fraternity and to some of the leaders of tariff reform in
England, he advocated closer relations between the mother country
and the outlying dependencies of the empire even before Mr.
Chamberlain took the platform in England as the champion of such
a policy.

“Mr. Meighen was known in eastern Ontario as a clever business
man, a follower of Sir John A. Macdonald, and as a man who had
ideas and could fearlessly express them on the stump and at the
fireside, many years before he came to Montreal. It was ere his
removal to this city that he had secured, most successfully, the
right of way for the Ontario & Quebec Railway, now the Montreal
& Toronto section of the Canadian Pacific, and later on he was
entrusted with the promotion of a bill which was of the utmost
importance to that railway. Mr. Meighen was not a member of
parliament, but he stated his case to the members outside and in
the lobbies of the house with such forcefulness, such clarity of
view and in so straightforward a manner that few could withstand
his cogent arguments. It was a tribute to his power that Sir
Richard Cartwright’s denunciation of him was quite as vehement as
the thunderbolts which the chief antagonist of the great railway
project used to launch against Sir John Macdonald, Sir Charles
Tupper and the other parliamentary giants of the day.

“Mr. Meighen believed not only in the Canadian Pacific project
itself, but also in the ultimate value of the great tracts of
land lying for a thousand miles along to the north of where the
line was being run away up to the Saskatchewan, and, if he died a
rich man, it was due to abiding faith in the future of Canada’s
western domain and in the ultimate development of the Dominion
as a whole. It was in reply to a jocular observation from Mr.
Choate, the then American ambassador at the court of St. James,
who had asked Mr. Meighen when Canada was going to throw in
her lot with the United States, that the Montreal imperialist
declared that it was customary for the larger unit to absorb the
smaller, and no doubt at her pleasure Canada would follow the
established precedent.

“A good many shrewd Montreal merchants smiled when Mr. Meighen
came from a small Ontario town to this city as the promoter of
a great industry, but many months had not passed before they
discovered that both in commerce and finance a rival worthy of
their keenest steel had taken his place amongst them and ever
after, when any important subject was up for discussion on the
floors of the Board of Trade, the opinions of the man from Perth,
uttered with characteristic Irish eloquence and wit, invariably
commanded respect and attention. His fellow members did not
always agree with him, but they were always ready to admit that
he was sincere and that he spoke the truth as he felt it.

“Returning from England some years ago, when everything spelt
unrest in industrial Britain, Mr. Meighen gave an interview to
The Gazette which has perhaps been quoted more frequently by
politicians on both continents, as well as by Canadian public men
of all parties, than any other of his utterances. Mr. Meighen,
who was always a great reader, declared that England at that
time could only be compared to Athens when Diogenes, the Greek
philosopher, went out with his lantern looking, as he said, for a
man. He said, however, in the course of that interview, that the
man would be found, and sure enough it was not long before Joseph
Chamberlain was entering upon his whirlwind campaign in favor of
imperial preference and the absolute unity of the British empire.
Mr. Meighen was denounced more than once at the Montreal Board
of Trade, but a good many of the men who came to scoff remained
to pray, to use Mr. Meighen’s own graphic language. Three years
ago, when a resolution was to be introduced before the Montreal
Board of Trade on the policy of imperial preferential trade, Mr.
Meighen was particularly anxious that it should be fathered by
a leader in commerce and finance. He prepared the resolution,
called upon the late Sir George Drummond, president of the Bank
of Montreal and universally admitted to be the first authority
on matters of trade and finance in the Dominion, asking him to
move it. Sir George Drummond’s answer was characteristic of the
man. ‘Mr. Meighen,’ he replied, ‘this resolution meets my views
exactly, but the honor of moving it belongs to you and you alone
and I will take a second place. You will move the resolution and
I will be only too happy to second it.’ Mr. Meighen delivered a
masterly address on that occasion and the resolution was carried.

“His greatest energy was centered in the development of the
company over which he presided up to the hour of his death, yet
he stated not very long ago that he was shaping things in such a
manner as would permit younger men to assume the responsibilities
of management and that after the million-dollar bond issue had
been retired he would then feel that he could take a rest.

“The late president of the Lake of the Woods Company was from the
outset an uncompromising opponent of the Washington reciprocity
pact and he did not hesitate to state on every offered occasion
that the ratification of such a treaty would be a severe blow
aimed at the unity of the empire, and a decided mistake in the
widest interests.

“He was the confidential friend and associate in various business
enterprises of both Lord Mount Stephen and Lord Strathcona. These
eminent men had implicit confidence in Mr. Meighen’s business
judgment, and as a matter of fact many other men high up in
imperial statecraft came to him for advice on both Canadian
and British trade matters. Indeed, some of the best speeches
delivered on the unionist side during the last two British
elections drew their information from, and were in part, inspired
by the ideas of this foremost, perhaps, of Canadian tariff
reformers.”

The same paper said editorially: “A worthy and widely respected
citizen was lost to Montreal by the death yesterday morning
of Mr. Robert Meighen. In business he won marked success. He
helped in no small way to show the great possibilities of the
milling trade of Canada and so profited the country as well as
himself and his associates. He judiciously employed the wealth
that came to him and greatly increased his store. The largest
business enterprises sought his counsel on their directorates
and profited by his connection with them. He was a man of ideas
in matters outside of commerce, and held and advocated views
about the country and the empire with vigor and courage and the
broadest loyalty. In private life his sincerity, earnestness
and kindliness caused all men to give him their regard. In his
capacity as merchant, citizen and man he rose to high stature;
and at a ripe old age closed a worthy career, leaving a memory
that is a help to what is good and creditable in business life.”

Among his business connections, not already mentioned, Mr.
Meighen was managing director of the Cornwall Manufacturing
Company, a director of the Canada Northwest Land Company, the
Bank of Toronto, the Dominion Transportation Company, the St.
John Bridge & Railway Company, the Montreal Street Railway
and the New Brunswick Land Company. His activities likewise
extended to other fields having to do with many subjects of vital
interest to city and country. He was a director of the Montreal
Parks and Playground Association and was president of the New
Brunswick Fish and Game Club. He was likewise vice president of
the King Edward Memorial Committee of Montreal, was chairman
of the Canadian board of the Phoenix Assurance Company and was
a governor of the Royal Victoria, the Western and Maternity
Hospitals of Montreal. The Montreal Standard named him as one
of the twenty-three men at the basis of Canadian finance, and
it was a recognized fact that few men were more familiar with
the problems of finance or did more to establish a safe monetary
system. Mr. Meighen belonged to various prominent social
organizations, including the St. James Club, the Mount Royal
Club, the Canada Club and the Montreal Club.

He was a Presbyterian, a member of St. Paul’s church and chairman
of its board of trustees. All his life Mr. Meighen was a firm
believer in the copartnership of capital and labor and in the
coexisting duties, on a fair basis, of one to the other. He
realized and carried out the idea of their inter-dependency.
When labor had contributed to the success of capital he never
allowed it go without recognition and its just reward, with the
result of absolute confidence on the part of his employes in
his fairness and regard for their interests, and a willingness
to give, in turn, their loyal and honest support to capital.
Above all Mr. Meighen had keen human sympathies. He delighted
in the energetic young man cutting out his road to success, but
this did not prevent him from having patience and sympathy with
those who, perhaps through lack of natural gifts or unfortunate
circumstances, found life an uphill pull. In astonishing numbers
both kinds of men seemed to bring their successes and their
failures to him, and to both, provided they showed honesty of
purpose, he would give his time, his advice and his help in the
open-hearted way characteristic of a man who had not a single
ungenerous impulse in his nature.

At the time of his death when the press throughout Canada was
giving appreciations of his ability and of his success one of
his intimate friends remarked, “They have omitted the biggest
thing about him--his heart”--and so it was. When these two, great
heart and much ability, go hand in hand and work together, one
vitalizing, as it were, the conceptions of the other, a potent
force is felt to be abroad. Well is it for our Canadian business
world to have had such a force in its midst as the late Robert
Meighen truly was. He died when still, one might say, at the
height of his activities and with a heavy burden of work upon
him, but to work was his pleasure. His loss was deeply deplored
by all who knew him and he left behind him a record of a man who
in all things was the soul of honor and an example to those who
come after--“Follow on.”

Mr. Meighen left a widow, Elsie Stephen, daughter of the late
William Stephen, formerly of Dufftown, Scotland, and three
children, Lieutenant Colonel F. S. Meighen, who has succeeded his
father as president of the Lake of the Woods Milling Company,
Mrs. R. Wilson Reford and Mrs. R. O. Harley.


WILLIAM ERNEST BOLTON.

Twenty years’ connection with the real-estate business has
brought William Ernest Bolton into prominence and today
he figures as a controlling factor in some of the leading
real-estate companies of Montreal. He was born in this city
April 11, 1873, a son of Richard and Elizabeth (Minchin) Bolton.
His education was acquired in the schools of his native city,
and early in his business career he became identified with
real-estate activity in which connection he has remained for
many years as a well known and successful real-estate broker. He
has been identified with many important property transfers and
with important development of real-estate interests. He is now
a director of the Montreal Loan & Mortgage Company; president
of the Birmingham-Montreal Realty Company, Limited; a director
of the Midland Investment Company, Limited; of the Richelieu
Realty Company, Limited; of the Renforth Realty Company, Limited,
and of the Riviera Realty Company, Limited. These are among the
most important corporations in that branch of business having to
do with the property interests and consequent development and
progress of the city.

In Plainfield, New Jersey, in 1905, Mr. Bolton was united in
marriage to Miss Catherine Hamilton McClure and they have become
the parents of two sons, Richard and Hamilton. Mr. Bolton votes
with the conservative party but the honors and emoluments of
public office have no attraction for him. When business leaves
him leisure for social enjoyment he spends his time at the
Montreal Club, the Beaconsfield Golf Club, the Winter Club,
the Montreal Country Club and the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association, in all of which he holds membership.


THORNTON DAVIDSON.

Foremost among the younger generation of business men in Montreal
and one who had attained a high standing in the financial circles
of the city, was Thornton Davidson, whose untimely death in the
sinking of the steamship Titanic, April 15, 1912, ended a career
that had not only been successful, but gave great promise for the
future.

Thornton Davidson was a native of Montreal, and was born on the
17th of May, 1880. His father was the Hon. C. Peers Davidson, D.
C. L., a distinguished jurist, and his mother Alice Mattice,
second daughter of William Mattice of Cornwall, Ontario. Reared
in Montreal, Thornton Davidson attended the city schools,
graduating from high school. Throughout his active business
career he was connected with financial interests, later becoming
manager of the Montreal branch of the New York house of Charles
Head & Company.

[Illustration: THORNTON DAVIDSON]

In 1908 he established the firm of Thornton Davidson & Company
which soon took a prominent position among the leading brokerage
and investment security houses in the city. In 1909 Mr. Davidson
became a member of the Montreal Stock Exchange. His thorough
capability and great energy were factors in the success of the
business which he established and of which he remained the head
until his death. His personal popularity made him a valued member
of the club life of the city, where he held membership in the St.
James, Racquet, Montreal Hunt, Montreal Jockey, Montreal Polo,
Royal St. Lawrence Yacht, Manitou and Canada Clubs, and also in
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association.

On November 3, 1906, in Montreal, Mr. Davidson was married to
Miss Orian Hays, daughter of Charles Melville Hays. Returning
from Europe in company with his wife and the latter’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Hays, on the ill-fated Titanic, Mr.
Davidson was among those brave men who on April 15, 1912, gave
precedence to women and children and went down with the ship.
Such an act is just what his friends would have expected of
Thornton Davidson in such an emergency. His associates knew him
as a capable business man and a most genial companion, but they
recognized in him also the strength of character which manifests
itself in the highest type of manhood when a crisis arises.


WILLIAM FAWCETT HAMILTON, M. D.

Important professional connections indicate the high standing of
Dr. William Fawcett Hamilton of Montreal, who, in addition to an
extensive private practice has done much hospital work. He is a
son of Gustavus W. and Eleanor (Goodwin) Hamilton, and was born
in Baie Verte, New Brunswick. His early education was acquired
in the schools of his native town and in Upper Sackville and
then, having determined upon the practice of medicine as a life
work, he entered McGill University of Montreal, from which he
was graduated with the class of 1891, receiving the degrees of
M. D. and C. M. He has now successfully practiced his profession
in this city for more than two decades and has advanced steadily
to a place of prominence as a representative of the medical
profession. From 1891 until 1894 he was medical superintendent
of the Montreal General Hospital and in the latter year became
assistant physician of the Royal Victoria Hospital, and upon the
death of Dr. James Stewart, in 1906, he was appointed attending
physician of that institution. He has proven himself a man of
ability and public opinion has accorded him rank with the eminent
physicians of the city. He is now associate professor of clinical
medicine at McGill University and as an instructor displays
capability in imparting readily, clearly, concisely and forcibly
to others the knowledge that he has acquired. In 1909 he was
elected a member of the Board of Victorian Order of Nurses, and
he is a member of the Association of American Physicians and vice
president of the Montreal Medico-Chirurgical Society. Through
these connections he keeps in close touch with the advanced work
of the profession and has himself been a leader along the line of
professional progress.

In June, 1897, Dr. Hamilton married Miss Janet Mills of
Westmount, P. Q. Aside from his activity in the professional
field Dr. Hamilton has done important public service as a
director of the Young Men’s Christian Association and as senator
of the Montreal Wesleyan Theological College. He is an active and
helpful member of the Methodist church, and his social nature
finds expression in his membership in the University Club and the
Montreal Country Club.


HON. MICHEL MATHIEU.

Hon. Michel Mathieu has engraven his name high upon the list
of Montreal’s eminent jurists, but has now retired from active
connection with the profession, spending the evening of life
in the enjoyment of well earned rest. He has passed the
seventy-fifth milestone, having been born at Sorel, province
of Quebec, December 20, 1838, a son of the late Joseph and
Edwidge (Vandal) Mathieu. His education was acquired under
private tuition and in the College of St. Hyacinthe, followed by
a professional course in Laval University. He was admitted to
the notarial profession in 1864 and was called to the Montreal
bar as an advocate in 1865. His practice of his profession has
been combined with active public service. In 1866 he was chosen
sheriff of Richelieu and continued in that position for six
years. He successfully practiced his profession at Sorel and
while at the bar was closely associated with journalism bearing
upon his profession, being the publisher of La Revue Legale,
together with some annotated reports. In 1880 he was created
king’s counsel by the Marquis of Lorne. He became widely known as
an educator, for in 1886 he became a member of the law faculty
of Laval University, receiving in that year the degree of LL.
D., and becoming dean of the faculty, which connection he still
retains.

It is a well known fact that members of the bar more than
representatives of other professions are prominent in
public office. The reasons for this are obvious and need no
amplification here, for the qualities which fit one for success
in law practice also prepare him for the thorough understanding
of involved problems affecting the public welfare, and the habit
of analytical reasoning is as forceful and valuable in one
connection as in the other. Judge Mathieu sat for Richelieu in
the house of commons, representing the conservative interests
from 1872 until 1874. He was then defeated but represented
the same constituency in the local parliament from 1875 until
1878. He took his place upon the bench as puisne judge of the
superior court on the 3d of October, 1881, and for twenty-eight
years interpreted law in opinions which were notably free from
partiality and bias. His decisions indicate strong mentality,
careful analysis and a thorough knowledge of the law. The judge
on the bench fails more frequently, perhaps, from a deficiency
in that broad-mindedness which not only comprehends the details
of a situation quickly and that insures a complete self-control
under even the most exasperating conditions than from any other
cause; and the judge who makes a success in the discharge of
his multitudinous, delicate duties is a man of well rounded
character, finely balanced mind and of splendid intellectual
attainments. That Judge Mathieu is regarded as such a jurist is
a uniformly accepted fact. He figured also in public life as a
royal commissioner to inquire into certain matters concerning
the good government of the province in 1892. He presided at
the celebrated Shortis case for murder in the ’90s; in 1910 he
lectured on the Canadian constitution and in July of that year
he was appointed a royal commissioner to revise, consolidate and
modify the municipal code of Quebec.

Judge Mathieu was married in 1863 to Marie Delina Thirza, a
daughter of the late Captain St. Louis of Sorel, province of
Quebec. She died in 1870 and in 1881 Judge Mathieu wedded Marie
Amelie Antoinette, a daughter of the late Hon. D. M. Armstrong,
M. L. C. The death of Mrs. Marie A. A. Mathieu occurred in
April, 1898. Judge Mathieu now resides at The Marlborough in
Montreal. His religious belief is that of the Roman Catholic
church. Something of his standing is indicated in the words of
Dr. J. Reade, who spoke of him as “much esteemed, especially by
the students and younger members of the bar,” while the Montreal
Gazette said of him, “He is a judge, painstaking and capable and
with a grasp of the law and its meaning that few can equal.” His
influence has been far-reaching and beneficial; it has touched
the general interests of society along many lines and has been
a factor in maintaining the legal status upon which rests the
stability and prosperity of a country, the life and liberty of
the individual.


HON. CHARLES SERAPHIM RODIER.

Along the path of broad usefulness and activity Hon. Charles
Seraphim Rodier advanced to prominence and success. He was a
pioneer contractor, lumber merchant and manufacturer of Montreal
and eventually came to figure prominently in financial circles.
He was born in this city, October 14, 1818, and his life record
spans seventy-two years, drawing to its close on the 26th of
January, 1890. His grandfather was a physician in the French army
and leaving Paris came to Canada, settling in Montreal in the
middle of the eighteenth century. His father was Jean Baptiste
Rodier, who married Miss Montreuil, daughter of a well known
navigator who commanded vessels sailing from Montreal.

The opportunities accorded Charles Seraphim Rodier in his youth
were somewhat limited. He pursued his education in a church
school, but at the age of fourteen years put aside his text-books
in order that he might earn his own living. He was apprenticed
to the carpenter’s trade and for his services received a wage of
one dollar per day. Thus from a humble position in the business
world he steadily worked his way upward until long prior to
his death he had reached a place in the millionaire class. He
applied himself thoroughly to the mastery of his trade and when
but eighteen years of age began contracting on his own account
and gained a good patronage. About the year 1846 he began the
manufacture of threshing machines on St. Peter Street, now St.
Martin, and for the remainder of his life was to be found almost
daily at his office at No. 62 St. Martin. The business prospered
from the beginning and machines that were made there over a half
century ago are still repaired there. Each step in his business
career brought him a broader outlook and wider opportunities. He
was the owner of freight and passenger vessels and was one of
the founders of the Jacques Cartier Bank, in which he placed one
hundred and forty-five thousand dollars. He acted as both vice
president and director of that institution and was connected with
several joint stock companies, his opinions carrying weight in
their management, for his advice was always considered sound and
his judgment discriminating in regard to business affairs.

Aside from his personal interests, he was for over fifty years
active in public life. In 1838 he was elected alderman for St.
Antoine ward of Montreal but could not take his seat until
later when he became of age. For nine years he served in the
council, being elected three times by acclamation. Politically
he was a stanch liberal-conservative and three times he refused
a senatorship, but later, at the urgent request of his family
and friends, he accepted in 1888, being gazetted senator on the
17th of December, of that year, for the division of Mille Isles.
He last attended parliament the week before his death and was
last at his desk on the 24th of January, 1890. He gave careful
consideration to the grave questions which came up for settlement
and stanchly supported any movement which he considered of
vital worth. His activities also extended to other lines. He
was president of the St. Jean Baptiste Society; was warden of
Notre Dame church; and president of St. Vincent de Paul Society.
He was also lieutenant colonel of the Sixty-fourth Beauharnois
Battalion at the time of its formation and he was ever a generous
contributor to religious, educational and charitable institutions.

Senator Rodier was united in marriage in 1848 to Miss Angelique
Lapierre, a daughter of Andre Lapierre. The death of Mr. Rodier
occurred January 26, 1890, when he had reached the age of
seventy-two years, while his wife survived until March 24, 1907.
They were the parents of four sons and four daughters.


ALEXANDER C. HENRY.

In business circles of Montreal the name of Alexander C. Henry
was well known, for from 1899 until his death, three years later,
he was purchasing agent for the entire system of the Canadian
Pacific Railway, the magnitude and importance of his duties
making his position a most difficult and responsible one. He was
born at Beamsville, Canada, in 1849, and after mastering the
branches of learning taught in the public schools he attended
the Upper Canada College, at Toronto. Subsequently he removed
to Montreal, and gradually working his way upward in business
connections became, in 1884, assistant purchasing agent for
the Canadian Pacific Railway, and in 1899 was made general
purchasing agent for the entire system. His ability, fidelity,
indefatigable energy and enterprise brought him to the prominent
position which he occupied. At the time of his death Sir Thomas
Shaughnessy, president of the Canadian Pacific Railway, paid high
tribute to his memory and bore testimony to his honesty, which
was manifest in his careful accounting for every penny, although
in his capacity of purchasing agent he expended over one hundred
and two million dollars.

On the 30th of November, 1882, in Montreal, Mr. Henry was united
in marriage to Miss Agnes Wilson, of England, and to them were
born three children, two of whom are living, H. Gordon, being
a resident of Cleveland, Ohio, and the other, A. Wilson, of
Montreal. Mr. Henry held membership in St. James the Apostle
church. He was a public-spirited citizen, active in support of
any movement which he deemed of vital worth in the upbuilding and
progress of the community. He belonged to St. James Club, the
Forest and Stream Club and others, and he had an extensive circle
of friends who held him in the highest esteem. Mr. Henry passed
away on February 2, 1902.


GEORGE FREDERICK BENSON.

In manufacturing and commercial circles of Montreal the name
of George Frederick Benson is well known. Important business
concerns have profited by his cooperation, have felt the stimulus
of his energy and enterprise and have been quickened by his
close application and careful control. Many of Montreal’s best
known and most successful business men are numbered among her
native sons, to which class Mr. Benson belongs. His father,
William T. Benson, a native of Kendal, Westmoreland, England,
was a member of the federal parliament for the constituency of
South Grenville, Ontario, in which county the village of Cardinal
(formerly called Edwardsburg) is situated. There the late W. T.
Benson resided for twenty-seven years, after establishing there
in 1858 the industry, so well known for many years throughout
the Dominion of Canada as The Edwardsburg Starch Company and
now forming the Edwardsburg Works of The Canada Starch Company,
Ltd. The late W. T. Benson married in England, before coming to
Canada, Helen Wilson of Acton Grange, Cheshire, England, and
their only son was George Frederick Benson, the subject of this
review.

He was educated in England at Uppingham School and Oxford
University, but returned to Canada, after the sudden death of his
father in 1885, to take charge of his father’s varied interests.
After first confining his work to the management of the firm of
W. T. Benson & Company, importers of foreign wools and chemicals
at Montreal, he was elected president of The Edwardsburg Starch
Company in 1894, and since the formation of The Canada Starch
Company in 1906 he has been its president and managing director.
He is likewise a director of the West Kootenay Power & Light
Company, and thus his interests have become extensive and
important, connecting him with leading manufacturing, commercial
and industrial interests, not only in the east but also in the
west.

In October, 1890, Mr. Benson was united in marriage to Miss
Etheldred Norton, a daughter of the late George Frothingham of
the well known firm of Frothingham & Workman, and they reside at
No. 15 Ontario Avenue, Montreal. Mr. Benson gives his political
allegiance to the conservative party and in religious faith
is an Anglican. He has been an active member of the Montreal
Board of Trade, and was treasurer for the year 1913. He has a
wide acquaintance among leading club men of the city, holding
membership in a number of the most important clubs of Montreal,
including the St. James, Mount Royal, Canadian, Canada, Forest
and Stream, Montreal Hunt, Montreal Racquet, Royal Montreal Golf
and Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Clubs. He is also a member of the
Royal Canadian Yacht Club of Toronto and an active member of the
Thousand Islands Yacht Club in the Thousand Islands district,
where he has a most attractive summer residence.


LOUIS N. DUPUIS.

Louis N. Dupuis is one of Montreal’s well known business men and
citizens, whose connection with varied and important commercial
enterprises in that city, has gained for him success and high
standing as well as an enviable position in business and
financial circles. He was born at St. Jacques l’Achigan, Montcalm
county, October 17, 1855, a son of Joseph Dupuis and Euphrasie
Richard. He attended Archambault’s Catholic Commercial Academy
now called Plateau school and entered upon his business career as
junior clerk in the employ of his late brother, J. Naz. Dupuis,
in 1868. While at this time, Mr. Dupuis was but a lad, yet he
applied himself closely and learned the business rapidly.

He was one of the founders in 1876 of Dupuis Freres, Limited, one
of the best known mercantile houses in Montreal, and during the
first ten years of this firm’s existence he took an important
part in the management of its affairs and was no small factor in
its success.

On the 1st of January, 1886, Louis N. Dupuis retired from the
firm, since which time he has given his attention to various
commercial enterprises, his sound judgment constituting an active
and effective force in capable management.

Mr. Dupuis has been for a number of years extensively identified
with real estate interests in Montreal, and in this connection
has taken a prominent part in the city’s development. He is
president of the Eastmount Land Company, also president of La
Compagnie General d’Immeubles, Limitee, and president of the
Merchants and Employers Guarantee and Accident Company. In these
companies as well as in others with which he has been identified,
his sound business judgment and foresight have been substantial
contributions to their success.

On the 25th of April, 1881, Mr. Dupuis was married at
L’Assomption to Miss Marie Melanie Panet Levesque, the second
daughter of Pierre Thomas Panet Levesque, a land surveyor. Mr.
Panet Levesque was seigneur of d’Ailleboust and Ramsey, which two
seigneuries are situated in the county of Joliette, P. Q. Mr.
and Mrs. Dupuis have ten children, living: Anne Marie; Amelie;
Pauline and Celine; Pierre Louis, a well known young advocate
of Montreal who was married on the 15th of January, 1913, to
Miss Carmel Girouard, daughter of Joseph Girouard, ex-member
of parliament of St. Benoit, Two Mountains; Rosaire, one of the
rising young notaries of Montreal, and of whom further mention is
made elsewhere in this work; François; Camille; Roger; and Jean.

[Illustration: LOUIS N. DUPUIS]

Mr. Dupuis holds to the political faith of the conservative
party and to the religious faith of the Roman Catholic church.
He is a Knight of Columbus of Conseil Lafontaine and belongs
to the Chapleau Fish and Game Club and the Canadian Club.
Thoroughly progressive in his ideas, he has kept well informed
both by reading and travel. As long ago as 1874, Mr. Dupuis
visited Fort Garry, now the city of Winnipeg, when the journey
required fourteen days from Montreal, and too, when the Red
River country was considered the “Far West.” He has since then
visited the Pacific coast no less than five times, as well as
various sections of the United States. He is equally familiar
with England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, as well as continental
Europe, as it was formerly his custom to make semi-annual trips
to Europe in connection with his business affairs. He enjoys
the outdoor life, especially the sports of the forest. His
public service has been well performed. At the end of 1909 he
was selected by the citizens committee to form part of the new
administration of the city as commissioner and was elected by the
city at large in the election held on the 2d of February, 1910.


ROUER JOSEPH ROY, K. C.

Rouer Joseph Roy, jurist, linguist and an interested student
of literary, scientific and antiquarian subjects, was born in
Montreal, January 7, 1821, his parents being the late Joseph
Roy, M. P. P., and Amelia (Lusignan) Roy. The former, of French
descent, rose to a position of prominence, representing his
riding in the provincial legislature. His wife was connected with
the distinguished family of Rouer de Villeray.

Rouer Joseph Roy attended Montreal College, from which he was
graduated with honors in the presence of Lord Durham. Having
determined upon the practice of law as his life profession, he
entered the law office of the Hon. Mr. Sullivan in 1838 and
after four years of thorough and comprehensive study was called
to the bar, in 1842. Almost from the beginning his career was
a successful one and after several years devoted to active law
practice he was appointed joint city attorney for Montreal in
1862, filling that position continuously until 1876, when he
became the sole legal advisor of the city, remaining in that
office until he resigned in 1898. He afterward filled the
position of consulting city attorney. In 1864 he was elected
syndic of the Quebec bar and so continued for four years. In the
same year he was made queen’s counsel as well as being elected
president of the committee in charge of the bar library, which
office he continuously and honorably filled for thirty years. In
1887 he was unanimously chosen batonnier of the Montreal bar and
the following year was chosen batonnier general of the province.
He held high professional rank and on several occasions appeared
before the judicial committee of the privy council in England.

In January, 1857, Mr. Roy was married to Miss Corinne Beaudry, a
daughter of the late Hon. J. L. Beaudry, M. L. C., who in 1857
was mayor of Montreal. Mr. Roy not only enjoyed a high reputation
as a lawyer but also as a scholar, being widely known as a
linguist, speaking fluently Greek, Latin, Italian and French as
well as English. For many years he occupied the presidency of
the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. He was one of the last
survivors of the Sons of Liberty, an organization which played
a most important part at the time of the rebellion of 1837. His
religious faith was that of the Roman Catholic church and he
filled the office of church warden of the parish of Notre Dame.
His life was characterized by a nobility that lifted him above
those traits which mar character and when death called him on the
27th of July, 1905, only words of commendation and respect were
spoken concerning his life work. He had done things worthy to be
written and had written things worthy to be read, and he left to
posterity an unblemished name, linked with many deeds that won
him prominence and honor.


CHARLES MACKAY COTTON.

A man of force, experience and capacity, Charles Mackay Cotton
has made for himself an enviable position at the bar of Quebec
and is numbered among the most able and successful advocates of
Montreal, where he is in active practice as a member of the firm
of Cotton & Westover. He was born in Durham township, Missisquoi
county, Quebec, February 22, 1878, and is a representative of a
well known Canadian family of English extraction, being a son of
Sheriff Cotton, a grandson of Dr. Cotton and a great-grandson of
Rev. Charles Caleb Cotton, B. A. (Oxford), who came from England
in 1799 and was one of the pioneer Anglican clergymen in the
eastern townships.

Charles Mackay Cotton acquired his preliminary education at
Cowansville Academy, Feller Institute, Grande Ligne, Quebec,
and afterward entered McGill University, Montreal, from which
he was graduated with the degree of B. A. in 1899, winning the
high honor of the gold medal for general proficiency. From the
same institution he was afterwards graduated B. C. L. in 1902,
taking at this time the Macdonald scholarship. In his student
days he gave every evidence of the ability and power upon which
his present success is founded for besides the honors above
mentioned he was class orator in science, arts and law. His
record in McGill University is very creditable and one of which
he has every reason to be proud, and its promise has been fully
justified by his later accomplishments in the professional
field. Mr. Cotton was called to the bar as advocate in 1902 and
immediately afterwards went abroad in order to get the advantages
of foreign travel and to supplement his excellent legal training
by further study. He attended lectures at the law school of the
University of Montpelier in 1903, thus completing an exhaustive
and comprehensive legal education.

Mr. Cotton opened his first office in Sweetsburg, this province,
practising in partnership with J. C. McCorkill, and proving
able, farsighted and discriminating in the discharge of his
professional duties. From Sweetsburg he came to Montreal, and he
is today one of the representative citizens of this community,
prominent in his profession and a leading factor in the promotion
of those projects and measures which have for their object
municipal growth, advancement and progress. The firm of Cotton
& Westover is one of the strongest of its kind in the city and
connected through a wide and representative patronage with a
great deal of important litigation. Mr. Cotton is recognized as
an able advocate, possessed of a comprehensive knowledge of the
law and a practical ability in its application, and his developed
powers and wide experience are bringing him constantly increasing
prominence in his chosen field.

Mr. Cotton is a member of the Anglican church and was formerly
a captain in the Fifteenth Shefford Field Battery. A strong
liberal, he takes an intelligent interest in public affairs,
opposing political corruption wherever he finds it and supporting
by word and action pure and clean politics. Viewed from any
standpoint his has been a useful and successful career, and the
future undoubtedly holds for him further honors and continued
prosperity.


WILLIAM ALEXANDER HASTINGS.

William Alexander Hastings, for many years vice president and
general manager of the Lake of the Woods Milling Company, Ltd.,
and one of the best known men in his line of business in Canada,
was born at Petite Cote, March 6, 1852, a son of George and
Margaret (Ogilvie) Hastings. George Hastings came from Boston,
Massachusetts, and located at Petite Cote where he was engaged in
farming.

William A. Hastings pursued his education in the schools of his
native city and began his business career as a clerk in the
Exchange Bank. His progress was rapid and he was promoted to
manager of the Bedford (Quebec) branch, and later manager of the
Exeter branch. Subsequently he was appointed treasurer of the
St. Joseph (Missouri) Gas Company, serving until 1882 when he
became identified with the milling business in which he achieved
such notable success. In that year, with his brother, George
V. Hastings, he became associated with the Ogilvie Company at
Winnipeg, building and opening the flour mills there with great
success. In 1888 he severed his connection with the above firm
and became vice president and general manager of the Lake of
the Woods Milling Company, filling this prominent and important
position until his death, which occurred on May 23, 1903.

Mr. Hastings had thoroughly acquainted himself with the business
in its different phases so that he was well qualified to assume
the control of one of the largest businesses of its kind in the
Dominion, and to his rare judgment and marked executive ability
is credited, to no small extent, the high degree of prosperity
enjoyed by the company whose affairs he so ably directed.

Robert Meighen, president of the Lake of the Woods Milling
Company, said that he had been associated with Mr. Hastings for
thirteen years and that any business which passed through his
hands passed through the hands of God’s noblest work--an honest
man. Others bore equally strong testimony as to his enterprise
and his thorough reliability. He never weighed an act in the
scale of public policy but always measured his deeds by the
standard of upright principle.

In 1884 Mr. Hastings was united in marriage to Miss Georgina Roy
Ure, daughter of the late George P. Ure, and they became the
parents of the following children: Margaret Ogilvie, who died in
infancy; William Roy, of Montreal; and John Ogilvie, of Montreal.

Mr. Hastings was lacking in none of the qualities which make for
upright manhood and progressive citizenship, and his cooperation
with any movement or plan largely insured the successful outcome
of the same. In 1890 he became a member of the Corn Exchange and
in 1893 was elected a member of the committee of management, in
which office he continued until 1898, serving for the last three
years of that period as treasurer. Throughout his entire life
Canada numbered him among her best citizens and the record which
he made reflected credit upon the Dominion, constituting a factor
in its material development.


ROBERT DENNISON MARTIN.

One of the best known men in the grain trade in Canada and one
whose untimely death cut short a business career that had been
highly successful and was full of greater possibilities for
the future was Robert Dennison Martin, who was born at Selby,
Ontario, October 18, 1854, a son of William and Elizabeth
(Thompson) Martin. The father was a farmer and the boyhood of
Robert Dennison Martin was spent in the manner of a farmer’s
son of that locality and period. His education, acquired at the
place of his nativity, was somewhat limited. He remained in the
district in which he was born until after attaining his majority.
Hearing of the possibilities of the western country, he went
to Manitoba and near Deloraine he secured a homestead which he
developed and improved. As he managed to gather together a little
capital, he turned his attention to merchandising, becoming a
member of the hardware firm of Faulkner & Martin at Deloraine,
an association which continued for a number of years after his
removal to Montreal. It was at Deloraine that he first became
connected with the grain business in which he was destined to win
notable success. In the buying of grain he became associated with
Alfred P. Stuart under the firm name of The R. D. Martin Company,
a partnership that continued until the death of Mr. Martin.

After a few years residence in Winnipeg Mr. Martin came to
Montreal in 1899, and with the exception of a year spent in
Napanee and a year in Kingston, Montreal was his place of
residence throughout the remainder of his life. The business of
The R. D. Martin Company enjoyed a steady and prosperous growth
and to its development Mr. Martin devoted his entire attention
and rare ability. Since his demise the business has been
continued under the name of the British Empire Grain Company,
Limited. Mr. Martin suffered from ill health for several years
prior to his demise which occurred at his beautiful new home at
No. 1 Murray Avenue, Westmount, which was completed only a few
weeks prior to his demise, which occurred on the 28th of June,
1905.

[Illustration: ROBERT D. MARTIN]

It was on the 18th of May, 1894, at Winnipeg, that Mr. Martin
was united in marriage to Miss Helen Moncrieff Morton, who was
born in Perth, Scotland, a daughter of Duncan and Jessie (Watson)
Morton. The father died when Mrs. Martin was but two years of
age and her mother survived until a few years ago. Mrs. Martin
came to Canada in 1892 and resided in Winnipeg previous to her
marriage, a brother having preceded her to that place. She is
one of five children born to her parents, four of whom survive,
as follows: Jessie, the wife of George Banks of Perth, Scotland;
Duncan, residing in Winnipeg; Helen M., who is Mrs. R. D. Martin;
and Madeline, the wife of Andrew C. Craig of Winnipeg. To Mr. and
Mrs. Martin were born five children: Charles Stuart, a student
in McGill University; and Helen Elizabeth, Edith Laura, Jessie
Watson and Robert Henry, all at home.

Mr. Martin was quiet and domestic in his tastes and habits. He
held membership in only one club, the Canada Club, and did not
enter actively into its affairs. He was very fond of his family
and found his chief delight in the home circle, being a loving
and kind husband and father. As a business man he was alert and
energetic, ready for any emergency and he seemed to pass by no
opportunity that pointed to honorable success. Contemporaries and
colleagues had the highest respect for him and more than that,
he gained the warm friendship and esteem of a large majority of
his acquaintances. Although a later arrival in Montreal than
many of his business associates, he gained prominence among them
and attained an enviable position in the business world. He was
a member of the Board of Trade and his opinions carried weight
among its representatives and in other connections which had to
do with the city’s welfare. He was truly Canadian in spirit and
interests and his devotion to the public good was one of his
notable traits of character.


J. LOUIS A. GUIMOND.

J. Louis A. Guimond, a notary public practicing in Montreal
and interested in business enterprises which connect him
with activity in the real-estate field, was born in the
town of Beauharnois, in the province of Quebec on the
14th of February, 1877. His father was Cyrille Guimond, a
merchant and manufacturer, who married Justine Dubreuil of
Pointe-aux-Trembles. In the pursuit of his education he attended
the Seminary of St. Hyacinthe and was graduated in letters with
the class of 1896, while his scientific course was pursued in
College St. Laurent, from which he graduated in 1898. He has
since been an active representative of the notarial profession in
which connection he has secured a large clientage that makes his
practice a profitable one. His life has been one of intense and
intelligently directed activity and aside from his professional
duties he is acting as a director and is a shareholder in a
real-estate company. He is likewise secretary-treasurer of two
municipalities and thus takes a helpful interest in public
affairs as well as in the conduct of private business interests.

On the 24th of May, 1909, at Iberville, P. Q., Mr. Guimond was
married to Miss Marie Louise Gayette, a daughter of Calixte
Gayette. Their children are Paul and Ives Guimond. The religious
faith of the family is that of the Catholic church and in
politics Mr. Guimond is a liberal-nationalist. He is energetic,
accomplished and successful and by the consensus of public
opinion he is ranked with the representative men of Montreal. He
comes of an old and respected line of ancestors who settled in
the province of Quebec in the seventeenth century. Since that
day they have not only been active and progressive in business,
but loyal in citizenship. Mr. Guimond’s lines of life have been
cast in harmony with the record of an honored ancestry and his
forbears have been no more loyal to city, province and country
than he.


ROBERT H. BARRON.

A man who has founded success in the legal profession upon
ability, comprehensive knowledge, long experience and untiring
industry, is Robert H. Barron, since 1895 in active and
successful practice as a notary in Montreal. He has made
continued and rapid progress in his chosen field of labor, each
year bringing him to a point in advance of the previous one, and
today the firm of Barron & Cushing, of which he is the senior
member, is one of the most reliable of its kind in the city.

Mr. Barron was graduated B. A. from McGill University in 1892
and acquired his professional training in the same institution,
completing the law course in 1895. In October of that year he
began practice in Montreal, being taken into partnership by
Mr. Charles Cushing and Mr. Robert A. Dunton; this association
continued until 1900, and Mr. Barron then continued in
partnership under the firm name of Cushing & Barron until
the death of Mr. Cushing in September, 1910. Mr. Barron then
practiced alone for about one year, when he associated himself
with Dougall Cushing, his present partner and a son of his former
partner. Barron & Cushing control a large and constantly growing
business, and the firm is known to be strong and reliable. Mr.
Barron is held in high honor in professional circles of Montreal,
and his prominence stands upon the substantial foundation of
ability and merit.


ARTHUR DELISLE, Q. C.

The legal fraternity of Montreal finds an able representative in
Arthur Delisle, who not only has achieved favorable reputation
in a private capacity but has ably represented the district of
Portneuf in the provincial parliament. Capable, earnest and
conscientious, he has been connected with important litigation
before the local courts and his clientele is representative.
He comes of an old and distinguished family whose ancestors
came from France in the year 1669, on the 15th of October of
which year arrived in Quebec Louis de l’Isle, of Dompierre,
of the bishopric Rouen, accompanied by his young wife, Louise
des Granges, of St. Brice of Paris, settlement being made at
Pointe-aux-Trembles, of Quebec.

Arthur Delisle was born at Portneuf and is the son of Jean and
Anathalie (Frenette) Delisle. In the acquirement of his education
he attended Laval Normal School Seminary of Quebec and Laval
University of that city, taking his degree of Master in Law (cum
laude) on the 23d of December, 1882. After locating for practice
in Montreal important business came to him and as the years have
passed he has become known as one of the most able men in his
profession in the city. He has every faculty of which a lawyer
may be proud, unusual familiarity with human nature and untiring
industry making him one of the most forceful members of the bar.
He was appointed queen’s counsel in 1898.

On April 22, 1890, at Quebec, Mr. Delisle was united in marriage
to Blanche Hudon, a daughter of Théophile Hudon, a prominent
merchant of Quebec. They have two children, Marguerite and
Gaston. While attending the Laval Normal School Mr. Delisle
received the usual course of military training under the
supervision of the high officers at the citadel of Quebec,
receiving such instruction there in the years 1876 and 1877. This
experience has been of great benefit to him as it infused into
the young man the lasting benefits of military exactness and
punctuality. From 1891 until 1896 he represented the district
of Portneuf in the house of commons, retiring in the latter
year in order to give his seat to Sir Henry Joly de Lotbinière.
Public-spirited and progressive, Mr. Delisle takes an active
interest in the progress his city is making as one of the great
metropolitan centers of North America and is ever willing and
ready to support worthy enterprises projected for general
improvement and growth.


DAVID GREENE, M. D.

In the death of Dr. David Greene, Montreal was forced to record
the loss of a most capable member of the medical profession. He
added to broad scientific knowledge and thorough training a deep
human sympathy combined with an almost intuitive understanding of
his fellowmen. Moreover he recognized to the fullest extent the
weight of responsibility and obligations resting upon him, and
his fidelity to duty became one of his strongest characteristics.
A native of Ballyshannon, in the north of Ireland, he died on
the 21st of March, 1891, at Montreal, Quebec. He prepared for
college at the Royal School of Portora, Enniskillen, and was
graduated from Trinity College at Dublin. He became a licentiate
of the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland and from 1858 until
1864 practiced in the north of Ireland. It was in his native
town of Ballyshannon that Dr. Greene wedded Miss Ellen Green,
who with a son and several daughters survive him. But one of the
children was born on the Emerald isle and with this daughter
Dr. and Mrs. Greene came to the new world in 1866, making their
way to Montreal, Canada. For a time Dr. Greene was actively
engaged in practice in this city and then removed to Granby,
where he practiced for many years, but afterward returned to
Montreal. His intellectual powers were marked and his scholastic
and literary attainments were of a high order. It was a liberal
education in itself to know him well and profit by his wonderful
store of knowledge, which he unconsciously imparted to his close
friends in conversation that was brilliant and fascinating. His
associates recognized that his comradeship meant expansion and
elevation. Being endowed with a warm heart and splendid mental
gifts, he left the impress of his individuality upon those with
whom he was brought into close and intimate relations. While he
took high rank in his profession, his attainments were varied and
brought him fame in other connections. He was a devout member of
the English church, and his influence was always on the side of
right, progress, truth and reform.

The surviving children of Dr. and Mrs. Greene are: Alice, Maud,
Gertrude, Vida, Geraldine, and Whately Stokes. The last named
pursued his education in the schools of Montreal and in March,
1898, made his initial step in connection with the banking
business as an employe in the old Ontario Bank, with which he was
connected for eight years. Through the past seven years he has
been with the Royal Bank of Canada, and is now manager of the
Laurier Avenue branch at the corner of Park Avenue and Laurier
Avenue West. Mr. Greene married Miss Gertrude Anne Sheppard, only
daughter of the late Charles Stanley Sheppard, and they have
one daughter, Lorna Gertrude. Mr. Greene has made for himself a
creditable place in financial circles as did his father in the
field of professional service, and the name has long been an
honored one in Montreal.


GEORGES GONTHIER.

In financial circles in Montreal we have to mention Mr. Georges
Gonthier as one of the most familiar figures. A member of the
well known firm of St. Cyr, Gonthier & Frigon and a public
accountant of some standing and repute, he has nevertheless
found time to promote many measures of great commercial and
public utility, and to prepare the way for the foundation of one
of our most important institutions (L’Ecole des Hautes Etudes
Commerciales).

Mr. Gonthier was born in Montreal in November, 1869. After a
period of arduous study and preparation he entered upon his
business activities in 1890, and since that time has advanced
steadily in his profession winning the good-will and esteem of
everyone, so that we now see him occupying such positions of
trust and public confidence as that of treasurer and director
of the Chamber of Commerce and president of the Institute of
Accountants and Auditors of the Province of Quebec. In fact, it
was Mr. Gonthier himself who was chiefly instrumental in bringing
about the establishment of the last mentioned institute, and he
played no small part in its subsequent organization, for which
his wide business experience and knowledge coupled with what we
might term an unrivalled commercial sagacity, especially fitted
him.

He was moreover one of the founders with the late Mr. Poindron of
the Canada-French Trade Development Committee, since merged into
the Comité France-Amérique under the presidency in Canada of the
Hon. Raoul Dandurand.

Nor are Mr. Gonthier’s activities limited to the field of
practical achievement. He has entered the lists as a public
lecturer on financial and accounting subjects where he has
won for himself considerable renown. In particular his essay
on “Bonds as an Investment” has been highly praised and was
even published in the financial journals at Paris. It is not
surprising therefore that he has considerable influence in
Belgium and in France.

[Illustration: GEORGES GONTHIER]

It would be superfluous to add anything further to demonstrate
the sterling qualities and well deserved reputation of Mr.
Gonthier. It may, however, be interesting to accountants and
auditors in general to know that it was mainly through his
efforts that the law was passed to render compulsory the keeping
of proper accounts to all who engage in business.


HUNTLY WARD DAVIS.

Huntly Ward Davis, member of the firm of Hogle & Davis,
architects, was born in Montreal, October 22, 1875, a son of M.
and Lucy (Ward) Davis, the latter a daughter of Hon. J. K. Ward,
M. L. C. Huntly Ward Davis attended Eliock school at Montreal
and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which he was
graduated as Bachelor of Science in June, 1898. He prepared for
and has always followed the profession of architect, working
in early manhood under A. T. Taylor, who became senior partner
of the firm of Taylor, Hogle & Davis, but has since withdrawn,
leaving the firm Hogle & Davis. Mr. Davis is a conservative, and
his membership relations are with St. James Club and with the
Church of St. James the Apostle. On the 26th of October, 1910,
in Montreal, he was married to Evelyn St. Claire Stanley Bagg,
daughter of the late Robert Stanley and Clara (Smithers) Bagg,
and they have a daughter, Evelyn Clare Ward Davis.


FRANCOIS XAVIER ROY.

This is an age of specialization. It is the unusual rather than
the usual thing for any man to attempt to gain proficiency in
the various departments of the law; on the contrary he usually
concentrates his efforts upon a single branch of jurisprudence,
with the result that he reaches a position which otherwise he
could not hope to gain. Following this general course, François
X. Roy has devoted his attention to commercial law, in which
connection he has a large and distinctively representative
clientage. He has been a lifelong resident of the province of
Quebec, his birth having occurred on the 13th of August, 1863.
His educational training was received at the College of Nicolet
and in Laval University. He also spent a year in special study
at Sherbrooke in 1886, was for a year under the direction of
the law faculty at Bishop’s College, and then passed the usual
examinations that secured his admission to the bar.

Choosing Montreal as the seat of his labors, Mr. Roy here began
practice in association with the late Hon. C. A. Geoffrion,
and later was with D. R. Murphy, K. C. He had become so well
established in practice as a successful commercial lawyer that in
1909 he was created king’s counsel. He has become a recognized
authority in the department of law in which he has chosen to
specialize, and as such is called to all parts of the province,
his opinions being largely received as authority upon points of
commercial law. He is now attorney for the Williams Manufacturing
Company, Henon-LeBlanc, Ltd., and several other commercial firms
of Montreal. He readily grasps the relation of cause and effect,
and in the preparation of his cases his analytical power is
strongly manifest. In presenting a cause before the courts he is
logical, and his deductions follow in orderly sequence.

Mr. Roy is a liberal in politics and in all his political
interests is actuated by a spirit of progressiveness as affecting
both provincial and Dominion affairs. He has ever stood for
improvement, reform and advancement, and for many years has held
the office of treasurer of the Reform Club. Aside from this he is
a member of Le Club Canadien, L’Alliance Nationale, L’Alliance
Française, La Société St. Jean Baptiste and other societies. He
stands as a high type of the French element in the citizenship
of Montreal, combining with the admirable and strongly marked
characteristics of a French ancestry the progressive spirit of
the modern age, a spirit which falters not in the accomplishment
of a task until success is achieved.


NAPOLEON URGEL LACASSE.

Napoléon Urgel Lacasse, attorney at law practicing in Montreal as
a member of the well known firm of Bastien, Bergeron, Cousineau,
Lacasse & Jasmin, was born at St. Vincent de Paul, in the county
of Laval, P. Q., July 11, 1877. In the early records of the
French families it is found that there are several variations
to the family name which appears also as Casse, Cassé and Du
Tertre. Angelique Lacasse was born in 1715 and died at Beaumont,
August 22, 1738. Antoine Lacasse, who was born in 1706, married
Marguerite Sionnaux and died November 27, 1778. The parents of
Napoléon Urgel Lacasse were Zéphirin and Rose Delima (Fortier)
Lacasse. Under the parental roof he spent his boyhood days while
studying in St. Mary’s College and Laval University of Montreal,
winning his Bachelor of Arts degree on the 15th of June, 1898,
and that of Bachelor of Laws on the 21st of June, 1901. Following
his graduation he entered immediately upon the active practice
of his profession and was alone therein until the 1st of July,
1912, when he entered into his present partnership relations. He
is recognized as one of the strong and able members of the bar
among the younger practitioners, and his experience and study are
continually promoting his knowledge and ability. Aside from his
profession he is financially interested in several joint stock
companies and has extensive real-estate investments.

Mr. Lacasse has been married twice, on the 28th of September,
1903, to Eugénie Barbeau and on the 31st of March, 1913, to Miss
Yvonne Barbeau, daughter of the late Godfroy Barbeau, a merchant
of Ste. Geneviève county, P. Q. The four children of Mr. Lacasse
are: Jean François Bernard, Jacques Vincent Ferrier, Joséphine
Hélène Marcelle and Suzanne Andrée Victoire. The religious faith
of the family is that of the Catholic church. The military
experience of Mr. Lacasse covers more than three years’ service
as commanding officer of St. Mary’s College Cadets from 1896
until 1898 inclusively. He was one of the winners in the cadets
contest in 1893 for the Duke of Connaught prize, also in 1894 and
1895.

In politics he is a conservative and has made public battles
for his principles in elections in the counties of Terrebonne,
Jacques Cartier, Laval and Yamaska. However, the practice of
law he considers his real life work, regarding it as abundantly
worthy of his best efforts, and in his chosen profession he has
made continuous and gratifying progress.


FRANK BULLER, M. D., C. M.

Dr. Frank Buller was one of the most celebrated ophthalmologists
of the new world, occupying, as practitioner and educator, a
position in which he had few peers. His scientific research and
his broad reading gave him a knowledge far superior to that of
many able members of the profession, and in the wise utilization
of his time and talents he made valuable contributions to the
world’s work.

Dr. Buller was born at Campbellford, Ontario, May 4, 1844, a
son of Charles G. and Frances Elizabeth (Boucher) Buller, of
Hillside, Campbellford. After attending the high school at
Peterboro, from which he graduated in due time, he took up the
study of medicine in Victoria College at Cobourg, completing
his course with the class of 1869. He then went to Germany,
where he spent two years in the study of the eye, ear, nose and
throat, acquainting himself with the advanced methods of eminent
men in the profession. While at the University of Berlin he
received close personal instruction from Von Helmholtz and Von
Graefe, and, during the Franco-German war, served as assistant
surgeon in a number of military hospitals of northern Germany.
In 1872 Dr. Buller went to London and studied for some years in
“Moorfields”--the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. He was for
two years chief house surgeon of this hospital, and he introduced
to London the “direct” method of ophthalmoscopy. In England he
became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons. Dr. Buller
began practice in Montreal in 1876 and rapidly advanced to a
foremost position in his profession. For seventeen years he was
the opthalmic and aural surgeon in the Montreal General Hospital
and resigned to take the same position in the Royal Victoria
Hospital. He was the first ophthalmologist to be appointed to the
General Hospital--and so remarkably recent is the development of
opthalmology in the new world that, prior to that time, every
physician and surgeon treated his eye cases in his own clinic.
For many years Dr. Buller was professor of ophthalmology and
otology in McGill University, being appointed professor when
the chair was founded in 1883. He was equally able in his large
private practice and enjoyed an ever widening reputation. Dr.
Buller received the English degree of M. R. C. S.

Dr. Buller was a powerfully built man, restless and very
energetic. His students used to say of him, “Buller is a great
teacher, but he wears us out.” He was forever engaged in arduous
mental work but also took keen interest in matters outside of
his profession. He was frank, straightforward and kind--a strong
generous nature.

Dr. Buller married Elizabeth Belton Langlois, of Quebec, who died
November 20, 1895. By this marriage there were two children,
Marguerite and Cecil. In 1898 he married Miss Jean Brien, of New
York, and they had three children, Francis, Audrey and James, the
latter dying in 1909.

Dr. Buller was a member of the Church of England. He died October
11, 1905. He was followed to the grave by the entire medical
profession of Montreal and numerous physicians from a distance.
Also many of the city’s poor were present at the obsequies--a
fact which, had he been able to know it, would have touched that
great heart which had so keenly felt their sorrows.

A colleague of Dr. Buller writes as follows: “In very delicate
cases, where he feared to trust patients in the hands of
untrained attendants, and they were too poor to hire professional
nurses, he has been known to stay with the patients all night,
after an operation, and attend to the dressing himself, lest the
eye, so tender and in such a precarious condition, might suffer
needless pain or be injured through a slight mistake.”

“Dr. Buller will be especially remembered because of three
inventions: (1) the Buller eye-shield (composed of a
watch-crystal and strips of sticking-plaster and oftenest
employed to protect an unaffected eye when its fellow is
afflicted with gonorrheal infection). (2) Temporary tying of the
cacalieuli for the prevention of wound infection in operations
on the eye-ball. (3) The Buller trial frame. Yet his inventions
and investigations were very numerous and, for the most part,
successful in every way. Thus, concerning his investigation into
‘Methyl Alcohol Blindness,’ conducted jointly with Dr. Casey
A. Wood, De Schweintz declares the work to be ‘by far the most
important contribution to the subject and one to which too high
praise cannot be given.’” Scientists, members of the profession
and all mankind delighted to honor him because of what he had
accomplished. High above any desire for pecuniary reward was his
deep interest in humanity and an earnest purpose to make his life
a serviceable one to his fellowmen.


WILLIAM WATSON OGILVIE.

Foremost among those men whose life’s record seems an inseparable
part of Canada’s industrial and commercial growth during the
period of their activities, is that of William Watson Ogilvie,
whose identification with the milling business covered a period
of nearly a half century. The position of Mr. Ogilvie in this
important industry was unquestionably at the head. He did more to
develop it than any other man before or since his time, and the
great success he achieved was fully merited.

William W. Ogilvie was born at Cote St. Michel, Montreal,
February 14, 1835, of Scotch ancestry, and belonged to the
Banffshire family of that name. He received his education in
Montreal schools, and in entering on a business career chose that
which was his by inheritance, the milling business.

His grandfather, Alexander, erected in 1801, a mill at Jacques
Cartier, near Quebec, where was ground the first flour under
British rule that was ever exported to Europe. This old mill was
really the foundation of the immense business that was built up
by W. W. Ogilvie. In 1860 he entered into partnership with his
brothers, Alexander and John, grain merchants and proprietors
of a mill at Lachine Rapids. The growth of the business was
soon responsible for the building of the Glenora Flour Mills
on the Lachine canal. The business continued to grow, and the
Ogilvies erected mills at Goderich and Seaforth, Ontario and
Winnipeg, Manitoba; and later, the Royal Mills at Montreal. The
three brothers operated together until 1874, when the elder
brother retired, and on the death of his brother, John, in
1888 the entire business management devolved upon William W.
Ogilvie, whose well developed powers were entirely adequate to
the demands made upon him in the further control and management
of this extensive enterprise, of which he became the head. In
addition to the properties mentioned, Mr. W. W. Ogilvie afterward
purchased the City Mills, Montreal, and at the time of his death
had accepted plans for a very large mill at Fort William. Some
years previous to his demise to facilitate the administration of
his western business, the Ogilvie Milling Company of Winnipeg was
formed in which Mr. Ogilvie was the dominant factor. The Ogilvie
Flour Mills Company, of the present, was organized in 1903 and
is practically the successor of the Ogilvie Milling Company and
various other interests in this line, belonging to Mr. Ogilvie’s
estate.

[Illustration: WILLIAM W. OGILVIE]

Mr. Ogilvie and his brother John were the pioneer wheat buyers in
Manitoba. He had traveled through Canada’s present wheat fields
years before they were cultivated and many times afterwards. From
the first small shipment of five hundred bushels from Manitoba in
1876, the shipments, in Mr. Ogilvie’s lifetime, to his own mills
increased until they reached the enormous total of eight million
bushels of No. 1 hard wheat, all purchased by his own expert
buyers from the farmers, at his seventy elevators, extending all
over the wheat section of Ontario and the northwest.

In the manufacture of flour Mr. Ogilvie spent a lifetime and
spared neither time, labor or expense in bringing his product to
the very acme of perfection. By steady industry and indomitable
energy and most of all the superior quality of his products,
upheld at all cost, the business grew until it not only became
the largest of its kind in the Dominion, but the most extensive
flour business in the world controlled by one man.

Mr. Ogilvie was the first to introduce into Canada the patent
process of grinding by rollers. In 1868, he visited Hungary where
this system originated, for the purpose of investigating it.
He saw at once its value and adopted it. He invented improved
machinery used in the milling business, and was always ready to
adopt the improvements of others that were practical.

It was said that he had better knowledge of wheat and wheat lands
than any man in Canada. His business furnished a market for wheat
growers and proved a stimulating influence in the agricultural
development of the great wheat-raising section of middle and
western Canada. His labors were directly responsible for much of
the growth, progress and prosperity of Manitoba and the provinces
farther west, and his worth as a business man and citizen was
acknowledged by all.

Mr. Ogilvie’s identification with commercial interests was large
and diversified. He was a director of the Bank of Montreal;
the Montreal Transportation Company; the North British and
Mercantile Insurance Company; the Old Dominion Board of Trade;
and the Sailors Institute. He was president of the Corn
Exchange Association; St. Andrew’s Society; and the Montreal
Horticultural Society; governor of the Montreal General and
the Royal Victoria Hospitals; president of the Manufacturers’
Association, and served as a member of the Harbor Board.

In regard to agricultural and horticultural interests he
manifested an interest and enthusiasm that were contagious,
his efforts constituting an example that many others followed.
He served both on the council and board of arbitration of the
Montreal Board of Trade and was president of that body in 1893-4.
In matters of citizenship he was extremely public-spirited and
what he accomplished represented the fit utilization of his
innate talents and powers. His political belief is indicated
in the fact that in 1896 he was president of the Liberal
Conservative Club of Montreal. He was a forceful speaker in both
French and English and frequently, in his earlier days, addressed
public meetings during political campaigns.

As a young man he served as lieutenant and subsequently as a
captain in the Montreal Cavalry under his brother, being thanked
in brigade orders by Colonel Pakenham in 1866.

He was one of the prominent members of St. Andrew’s church.
Mr. Ogilvie always gave with a free hand toward various public
institutions, and there was no movement of importance to which
he did not contribute. His benefactions were liberal, varied and
by no means local. He gave thirteen thousand dollars, towards
making up a deficit for completion of the Jubilee wing of the
Winnipeg General Hospital. He was one of the first to subscribe
to the patriotic fund for the families of those who went with
the Canadian contingent to the Transvaal war. Mr. Ogilvie was a
man of great business capacity and to a most remarkable extent
maintained a personal knowledge of his diversified interests.

His death on January 12, 1900, was very sudden. He had been
at his office attending to business as usual, after which he
attended a directors’ meeting of the Bank of Montreal. On his way
home he was taken ill and passed away soon after reaching there.

Many of the leading mercantile houses and public offices flew
their flags at half mast through respect for him. The Montreal
Gazette at time of his death, said on January 13, 1900,
editorially:

“It is long since any event caused such a painful shock in
Montreal as did the death yesterday of W. W. Ogilvie. Strong
in body, clear in mind, actively interested in the details of
great concerns, he was one of the last whose taking away would
be thought of. His loss will be felt the more because of its
suddenness and it is a great loss, to the city’s commercial life.
Mr. Ogilvie’s business intelligence and energy long ago raised
him to a place not among Canada’s alone, but among the world’s
great merchants.

“It was a just pride that he felt in directing the greatest
milling interest in the world under one man’s control; and the
pride was more than personal. He early saw what the northwest
meant to Canada, both commercially and nationally, and it was a
pleasure to him to feel that as his business spread it was making
known the resources of the country, in all of whose affairs he
took the deepest interest.

“The success that he gained in his own business caused
his counsel to be sought in the direction of other great
enterprises. He was a director in the country’s greatest
financial corporation, and in other institutions in which he had
investments. On the Corn Exchange and on the Board of Trade, his
was an influential voice, and it was always raised in behalf of
that which was best and broadest.

“He knew how to give generously to a good cause. He earned
the respect of all who were brought into contact with him and
especially that of the hundreds of men who served him in the
enterprise of which his was the directing brain.

“It was a big place that he won through his heart as well as by
his head and it will be long ere there will be found another
capable of filling it.”

Mr. Ogilvie was survived by his widow and four children, three
sons and a daughter, Albert Edward, William Watson (died 1906),
Gavin Lang and Alice Helen. Mrs. Ogilvie previous to her marriage
in 1871, was Helen, a daughter of Joseph Johnston of Paisley,
Scotland.


R. A. BALDWIN HART.

R. A. Baldwin Hart, prominent as a representative of one of the
old families of Montreal, manager-executor of the Theodore Hart
estate, and a public-spirited citizen, was born in Montreal,
December 5, 1852, a son of Theodore Hart. For a long period the
family had been represented in this city, the name figuring
prominently in connection with its history. His education was
acquired in the schools of Montreal and his life was spent in his
native city.

In 1900 in Montreal Mr. Hart was united in marriage to Miss Mary
Isabella Owen, who survives him, the death of Mr. Hart having
occurred on the 11th of September, 1903, when he was yet in
the prime of life. He was very fond of outdoor sports. He was
a wide reader and kept abreast with the events of the day and
the progress of the times. Charitable and kindly in spirit, he
listened attentively and sympathetically to a tale of sorrow
or distress and no worthy object failed to receive substantial
assistance from him. Civic affairs were a matter of interest to
him and he supported movements which he deemed of benefit to
Montreal. His was indeed a well rounded character in which the
varied important interests of life received due consideration and
he stood as a high type of Canadian manhood and citizenship.


ALAN JUDAH HART.

Alan Judah Hart, founder of the Hart Manufacturing Company, of
Montreal, is a descendant of one of the oldest English speaking
families of Canada, the ancestry being traced back to one who
came from New York with General Amherst in 1759. For many
generations the family was represented at Three Rivers, Canada.
Lewis A. Hart, father of Alan J. Hart, has for forty years or
more been a notary in Montreal. He was born at Three Rivers
and was educated in Montreal, supplementing his preliminary
studies by advanced courses which won him the degrees of Master
of Arts and Bachelor of Civil Law. He married Fanny Elizabeth
Benjamin and they became the parents of four sons and four
daughters: Claude Benjamin, a commission merchant; Arthur Daniel,
a manufacturer’s agent; Philip Beyfus, a commercial traveler;
Alan Judah; Ethel Muriel; Mabel Ruth; Gladys Judith; and Dorothy
Marguerite.

Alan Judah Hart was born in Montreal, October 4, 1879. He was
educated in Montreal and for some years was employed by E. A.
Small & Company, manufacturers of men’s clothing, and later was
with A. H. Sims & Company, manufacturers of ladies’ clothing,
acting as superintendent of the house for three years. In 1902
he established the Hart Manufacturing Company for the purpose of
manufacturing ladies’ tailor-made suits and cloaks and in the
conduct of this business he has been very successful. Mr. Hart is
a director of H. Vineberg & Company, Limited, manufacturers of
the Progress Brand clothing and has become widely and favorably
known in commercial circles.

Mr. Hart married Miss Eva Vineberg, a daughter of Harris
Vineberg, and they have a family of five children: Edward Henry,
Gordon David, Lawrence Ezra, Alma Ruth and Vera Esther.

Mr. Hart is a life governor of the Montreal General Hospital
and a director of Mount Sinai Sanitarium at Ste. Agathe. He
was likewise a member of the executive board of the Canadian
Manufacturers Association, serving in that capacity in 1912 and
1913, and he is a member of the Montreal Board of Trade and
of the Royal Arcanum. His interests and activities are varied
and important, winning him recognition of his worth in both
commercial circles and in public life.


HON. LOUIS JOSEPH FORGET.

Hon. Louis Joseph Forget, whose name is written large on the
pages of financial and industrial history of Montreal during the
past forty years, left the impress of his great constructive
force and energy upon mammoth projects which are figured as
some of the Dominion’s leading enterprises. He was born March
11, 1853, at Terrebonne, P. Q., a district that has produced
many eminent statesmen, writers, merchants and financiers. He
was one of the nine sons of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Forget and was
descended from a family that came to Canada from Normandy in
1600. Among those nine sons there were two priests, one of whom
declined episcopal robes, a notary, two lawyers, two contractors,
one farmer and he who was destined to become a power in the
financial world, Louis Joseph Forget. His education was acquired
at Masson College and his entrance into business circles was in
connection with a dry-goods establishment. He had almost reached
the determination of trying his fortune in the United States
when he chanced upon a newspaper that contained an advertisement
of office help being needed by Thomas Caverhill. Mr. Forget
applied for the position the next morning and was accepted.
From the beginning of his work with Mr. Caverhill the young man
displayed unusual aptness as well as great eagerness to learn.
He was not an ordinary boy. He took great interest in his work
and often asked questions about other features of the business
that did not come within his particular line of duties, but
a knowledge thereof added to his capability and rendered him
fit for promotion and opportunity offered later. It is only
natural that a young man of this character should attract the
attention of his employer. Mr. Caverhill took great interest
in him and was instrumental in causing Mr. Forget to enter the
brokerage business. The financial exploit during Jay Gould’s
celebrated Black Friday in Wall Street reflected no little credit
upon Mr. Forget, displaying in notable manner his insight and
ability, and soon afterward he was nominated for membership
in the Montreal Stock Exchange by his former employer. It is
interesting in this connection to note that he was the first
French-Canadian to be admitted to membership in that body and
that before he had reached his majority he purchased his seat
therein at a cost of nine hundred dollars. He began business as
a stock broker in Montreal in 1873, from which time until his
death, thirty-eight years later, his prominence and success in
the investment security business were not over-shadowed by that
of his contemporaries. He founded the financial house of L. J.
Forget & Company, one of the foremost in its line in Montreal and
remained its head during his life time. The Paris branch of L. J.
Forget & Company at 7 Rue Auber, was the first to be established
in continental Europe by a Canadian financial house and readily
secured a clientele that materially broadened the operations of
the firm.

[Illustration: HON. LOUIS J. FORGET]

Senator Forget was elected president of the Montreal Stock
Exchange in 1895 to succeed H. S. Macdougall and in May, 1896,
was reelected. His business and financial connections had been
constantly broadening and had long since included a prominent
identification with the foremost financial and industrial
projects of the time. In 1892 he became president of what was
then the Montreal City Passenger Railway Company, now the
Montreal Tramways Company. He remained its directing head until
1911, in which connection he accomplished what has meant much
to Montreal. To no one man is the city indebted as largely for
the upbuilding and development of its transportation system as
to Senator Forget. Under his regime the motive power was changed
from horses to electricity and the market value of the company’s
stock advanced from around one hundred dollars to three hundred
and thirty-seven dollars and a half per share.

In 1895 Senator Forget became president of the Richelieu &
Ontario Navigation Company. At that time the affairs of the
company were far from being on a dividend-paying basis and the
rehabilitation of its interests was but another illustration of
Senator Forget’s constructive genius. He resigned his position as
head of the company in 1905, but in the meantime the stock was
paying a six per cent dividend and the affairs of the company
generally were in a better condition than ever before.

One of the great achievements of Senator Forget was in carrying
through the merger of the Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company
and in doing so he accomplished what many predicted to be utterly
impossible, saying that nothing but failure and financial
disaster could result. This was in 1900 before the days when big
business interests were merged into mammoth enterprises and the
amount involved, seventeen million dollars, seemed to stagger
even the most progressive element in financial circles. Like
all of his undertakings, Mr. Forget had not entered into this
without due consideration and he had implicit confidence in its
success. It is doubtful if any but he could have swung that deal
and how well he succeeded is best indicated in the value of the
securities of the company in investment circles.

He was a prominent figure in the notable contest which took
place between the Dominion Coal Company and the Dominion Iron
& Steel Company. Originally a director and vice president of
the coal company he espoused the cause of the steel company in
its fight over the coal supply and ultimately the matter was
carried to the privy council and was there decided in favor
of the steel company. Mr. Forget was elected vice president
of the steel corporation when eventually the two companies
were merged and he continued to take an active part in the
administration of the affairs of the company to the time when
his health began to fail. Evidence of his wonderful insight and
sagacity in business matters is shown in the fact that when the
trouble first arose from which resulted the extended litigation
between the Dominion Iron & Steel Company and the Dominion Coal
Company Senator Forget went over the point in contention in his
characteristic deliberate manner and at once concluded that the
claim of the steel corporation would be sustained by the courts,
notwithstanding the contrary opinion of some of the greatest
legal authorities and business men of the day and time proved
that his judgment was correct.

He was the first French-Canadian to be elected to the directorate
of the Canadian Pacific Railway and was a member of its board at
the time of his death. His greatest enthusiasm was aroused while
viewing the untold resources of the west during the many times
he accompanied Sir Thomas Shaughnessy and R. B. Angus on their
annual tours of inspection. When the life work of Senator Forget
was ended the Montreal Daily Star said in part: “By the death of
Senator Forget a man of affairs has been lost to Canada. A man
of wide vision who saw far into the future and who modeled his
career accordingly. A glance through the financial district at
the half-masted flags at once conveys an idea of the number and
the prominence of the institutions that Senator Forget had been
interested in. Senator Forget stood out in Canadian finance, but
more than that, he was a true Canadian citizen and had done his
share towards the public weal, forgetting not his duty towards
the state in the midst of tremendous private enterprises. He was
a man of sympathies. At all times courteous and approachable,
he could thrust aside great business matters to attend to the
small wants of individuals, nor was he ever found wanting or
indifferent when charity offered a plea.

“In finance Senator Forget was a true leader. He was one of the
first men to loom large in high finance in Canada. He realized
many possibilities which other men have realized too--but he
followed that by action. He had the courage to follow his
convictions and many solid institutions which today enjoy in
themselves prosperity and largely aid in the advancement of the
Dominion, owe to him debts which can never be repaid to the
individual, though they will be to the people of the country. His
financial ability brought him into prominence in connection with
several of the largest corporations in the Dominion, prominent
among which were the Montreal Street, the Richelieu & Ontario
Navigation Company and the Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company,
the Dominion Coal Company, and the Dominion Iron & Steel Company.

“Senator Forget was one of the colossal figures about whom have
surged the tides and currents of Canadian finance. The news of
his death this morning was as much of a shock as a surprise, both
to those with whom he had been so long associated in connection
with the organization and the management of the great financial
and industrial enterprises of the Dominion and to the thousands
of others to whom his name had come to be the shibboleth of
success.

“But if Senator Forget represented one thing more than success
it was absolute unswerving fidelity to his word. In all the
heat and confusion of the stock market amidst the treacheries
which sometimes attend on high financing and the deception and
duplicity which beset the path of the successful man everywhere,
there was never a question of his own unfaltering veracity.
Senator Forget was wisely charitable, an intelligent patron of
the arts, and a strong supporter of all movements which made for
the better government of the city and the state. He will long be
remembered for what he was as well as for what he did.”

Another Montreal paper said of him: “His rise to financial fame
is written on the business history of Montreal, and the story
of his success in the financial world is the history of the
development of the city. Although Senator Forget’s estate will
count up into the millions, its accumulation was not effected by
continuous plain sailing.”

Obstacles and difficulties of grave import arose, but his
financial capacity and strict integrity had won the confidence
and trust of friends who rallied to his support, and although
he saw the storm clouds gather, he was able to turn threatened
disaster into brilliant achievement. His investments were most
judiciously made and his judgment concerning important financial
transactions seemed never at fault. Once his mind was made up as
to the value of a security nothing could shake his confidence,
and much of his success in life was due to his unerring judgment.

Slow to make a promise or express an opinion, Senator Forget
never failed to fulfill a promise and when he gave his opinion
it was the expression of his honest conviction and indicated a
course which he would follow in a similar position. If he advised
an investor it meant that he would not hesitate a moment in
investing his own money in the same security. His unquestioned
loyalty to his friends covered his entire business career. His
recommendation of a security to an investor meant that he would
fully support that security and there were instances in his
career when even his vast resources were taxed in such support.
This was true in connection with the Montreal Stock Exchange in
a security where large sums were invested on his recommendation.
The implicit confidence that capital had in his judgment enabled
him to finance and successfully carry out projects that probably
no other man of his time could have handled. His word was as
good as his bond. His denial of a rumor killed it immediately
just as an admission from him settled all doubt. He could see
through a proposition readily and would decide important and
extensive matters quickly. His decision was never hasty or ill
advised but came as the result of the fact that he had mastered
many grave business affairs and with readiness comprehended every
phase of a situation that came before him. He was a man of strong
personality. His was never the command of the tyrant to go but
ever the call of the leader to come. He was never vacillating in
his opinions of the best methods to be followed or the manner
in which a given work was to be done. He was a most considerate
and appreciative man and was always ready to encourage one who
was striving upward. He was not a talkative man, that is he
talked but comparatively little, yet he talked to the point and
with great earnestness and thinking men listened to him with
attention. He never laughed aloud, but his smile was one full of
humor, enjoyment and good nature. Judging his manner by first
appearance might do him an injustice, for a habit of earnest
thought had brought a deep furrow in the forehead that might be
regarded as a frown. An acquaintance, however, always received
the most polite attention from him and his unfailing courtesy of
manner showed him to be a perfect gentleman in the highest and
best sense of the term.

His interest in benevolent and charitable projects was wide
and his support thereof most generous. He became a director of
the Notre Dame Hospital and was a governor of both the General
Hospital and the Western Hospital. He was a governor of the Art
Association and life governor of the Numismatic & Antiquarian
Society; also president of the board of governors of Laval
University. His political career is an interesting one, for he
was not always a supporter of the liberal-conservative party.
Although a fellow townsman of Sir Adolphe Chapleau, the Senator
had been allied with Sir Henri Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in
that leader’s contest with Chapleau, Angers and the rest of the
conservative leaders of his time. In federal politics, however,
Hon. Mr. Forget declined to follow the free trade policy of
Mackenzie and Cartwright, which had been forced against his
will upon Rodolphe Laflamme, and from the days of the national
policy the Senator worked with the present conservative party.
He was appointed to the upper house during the elections of
1896 and was the last conservative senator to enter that branch
of the Canadian parliament. Senator Forget seldom addressed
the senate, yet his advice in committee was of great value to
his fellow members and it was here that the close friendship
sprang up between Senator Forget and the ex-prime minister, Sir
Mackenzie Bowell. The Senator was a loyal follower of R. L.
Borden as leader of the conservative party, both in parliament
and in the country. He realized that it was a very difficult
matter for any leader to find complete favor in the eyes of all
the provinces, but he was confident that Mr. Borden gave his
services to the party and to the country in a patriotic manner
and consequently deserved the support of a united party in both
houses. The Montreal Gazette some years ago termed him “an astute
and enterprising man of affairs.” He was more than that. He was
a constructionist and builded where others saw no opportunity;
he was a patriot without narrow partisanship; a Roman Catholic
and stanch churchman without a particle of race prejudice, in
evidence of which fact his closest friend in the senate of the
Dominion was an ex-grand master of the Orange Grand Lodge of
British North America--Sir Mackenzie Bowell. High honors had been
accorded him, distinction and notable success had come to him.
These things made him an eminent citizen, but, more than that,
attractive social qualities and genuine personal worth had gained
him the highest regard, confidence, good-will and friendship of
his contemporaries and colleagues.

While Senator Forget was a member of a number of clubs, he
manifested keenest interest perhaps in the Mount Royal Club, of
which he was one of the founders. Among the other clubs to which
he belonged were the St. James, of which he had been president;
the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club; the Forest and Stream; the
Montreal Hunt; the Country Club of Ottawa and the Manhattan Club
of New York.

In May, 1876, Senator Forget married Miss Maria Raymond, a
daughter of Gustav A. Raymond of Montreal. They were the parents
of five children: Loulou, now Mrs. W. W. Skinner; Raymond, who
died at the age of four years; Blanche, now Mrs. Guy Boyer;
Marguerite; and Pauline. The two younger daughters accompanied
their parents abroad and the family was sojourning at Nice when
Senator Forget passed away, April 7, 1911.


CHARLES M. BLACK.

Thorough preparatory training and broadening experience well
qualify Charles M. Black for the important and responsible duties
that devolve upon him as secretary and treasurer of the insurance
brokerage firm of R. Howard & Company of Montreal. He has many
friends in this city, to whom his life record will prove of
interest. He was born in Winnipeg in 1890, a son of William Allan
Black and a grandson of Charles R. and Elizabeth (Hall) Black, of
Montreal. There is a mingled strain of English and Scotch blood
in his veins. The birth of William A. Black occurred in Montreal,
November 17, 1862. His education was acquired in the schools of
his native city, and for some years he was in the service of the
Grand Trunk and Canadian Pacific Railway Companies. In 1882 he
went to Manitoba and the following year became connected with
the Ogilvie Milling Company, one of the foremost enterprises of
that character in the country. Gradually in that connection he
worked his way upward and in 1902 was appointed general manager
of the western division, while in 1910 he was elected one of
the directors of the company. Still further promotion has come
to him in his election as vice president and managing director
of the Ogilvie Flour Mills Company. He is likewise a member of
the Winnipeg Board of Trade, a councillor of the Winnipeg Grain
and Produce Exchange and a member of the grain survey and grain
standard boards. He is likewise a director of the Home Savings &
Investment Company, Molson’s Bank and Larose Consolidated Mines
and is managing director of the Kaministiquia Power Company and
president of the Manitoba Cold Storage Company. He belongs to
the Winnipeg and Manitoba Clubs. He was married in 1888 to Mary
Campbell, daughter of Alexander McEwan, of Edinburgh, Scotland.

The illustrious example of his father has fired the ambition
of Charles M. Black, who was reared in Montreal and Winnipeg.
Making good use of time, talents and opportunities, he has
steadily progressed and is today a well known factor in insurance
brokerage circles of Montreal. The business of the firm of R.
Howard & Company was established in 1901 and was organized
under the present firm style on the 1st of February, 1913, when
Charles M. Black became a member of the firm, of which he has
since been secretary and treasurer, with Robert Howard as the
president. He had received thorough initial business training in
three years’ connection with his father, and he is also secretary
and treasurer of the Financial Investment Company. A young man
of determination and energy, he carries forward to successful
completion whatever he undertakes, and obstacles and difficulties
in his path serve but as an impetus for renewed effort on his
part.


JOHN PRATT.

High on the list of Montreal’s worthy citizens who have passed
from this life appears the name of John Pratt, who from 1839
until 1872 was one of the prosperous merchants of the city. He
was born at Berthier, en haut, on the 20th of July, 1812, and
after a well spent life of sixty-four years passed away July 22,
1876. He was survived for only a few weeks by his brother, Mr. C.
F. Pratt, with whom he had commenced his business career and with
whom he was almost continuously associated thereafter.

The father was a merchant at Berthier and in 1833 the sons,
Charles F. and John, left the paternal home to establish a
business house in Quebec under the firm name of C. F. Pratt &
Company. Having succeeded almost beyond his expectations in that
city, John Pratt opened a branch establishment at Three Rivers
and, as in Quebec, won almost immediate prosperity in the conduct
of the enterprise. Soon the brothers found that their sphere of
action was too limited and in 1839 they extended the scope of
their interests by founding the well known leather house of John
Pratt & Company in Montreal.

In 1852 the Quebec house was closed, the brothers concentrating
their energies upon the conduct of the Montreal business, out
of which they made colossal fortunes, that of Mr. John Pratt
amounting to about a million dollars. The tanneries at Roxton
Falls were started by the Pratts, who for many years stood at
the head of the leather business. In 1869, however, they put
aside industrial and commercial interests, but while Charles
Pratt confined himself to private affairs, his brother, John
Pratt, whose name introduces this review, unable with his active
temperament to remain comparatively unemployed, engaged in the
conduct of several joint stock companies, with which he had
identified himself. At the time of his death he was president
of the Richelieu & Ontario Navigation Company, over whose board
he had presided since 1867. He was president of the Banque du
Peuple, of the Rubber Company, and others; and was vice president
of the Citizens Assurance Company, a position which he also
occupied in connection with other joint stock concerns. He was
on the board of directors of the Valleyfield Cotton Company, an
enterprise which he had done much to promote. Indeed, it may
be said of Mr. Pratt that he was an undoubted authority on all
business matters, being sagacious, practical, enterprising and
energetic. He seemed to recognize almost from the beginning the
possibilities of any undertaking, and he never faltered until his
purpose was accomplished.

In 1863 Mr. Pratt was placed on the harbor board, but the
succeeding year the government of Sir John Macdonald removed him
from office, doing exactly the same by Hon. John Young and Mr.
Thomas Cramp. In 1874, however, he was placed upon the newly
constituted board, of which he was an active, practical and
influential member. His natural modesty impelled him, upon
several occasions, to decline nomination for parliament, to
which, there is no doubt, had he so desired, he would have been
elected. Politically he was a thorough reformer and even by those
who differed from him, his opinions were looked upon with great
respect. He was at all times a thorough gentleman, a faithful and
considerate friend and a real philanthropist.

[Illustration: JOHN PRATT]

On the 3d of March, 1840, Mr. Pratt married Marie Mathilde Roy,
the widow of Charles Ovide Perrault, who was killed in the
rebellion of 1837. Mrs. Pratt died July 29, 1897. The children
born to Mr. and Mrs. Pratt were: Marie Mathilde, who was married
in 1862 to Desire Girouard; Charles Alfred, a practicing
physician, who in 1866 married Alphonsine Leclair and resides
at Longueuil; Eveline Marie Louise, the wife of Joseph Gustave
Laviolette, of Montreal; Virginia, who was married September
30, 1878, to George H. Matthews; Aloysia, who was married June
17, 1878, to Percy Franklin Woodcock, the well known artist;
Frederick Emile George, who was married May 31, 1883, to Albina
Thibault, the widow of his younger brother; and Louis Edouard
Albert, who married Albina Thibault and died August 11, 1880.

On the 27th of July, 1876, the body of Mr. John Pratt was taken
from the family residence, No. 310 Lagauchetiere Street to the
church of St. Jacques, St. Denis Street, and thence to the
family vault in the Roman Catholic cemetery. The attendance
at the church was immense, comprising all the influential and
representative citizens, both French and English, of Montreal.
At the church the burial service was celebrated by Rev. A. L.
Sentenne, curé of the parish, assisted by Rev. Father Fleck,
superior of the Jesuits.

Perhaps no better indication of Mr. Pratt’s high standing could
be given than by quoting a letter received by Mrs. John Pratt,
reading:

  “Dear Madam:

  “We, the harbor commissioners of Montreal, take the liberty of
  intruding upon you to express our sympathy and condolence to you
  and your family in the irretrievable loss sustained by the death
  of your late husband, our friend and colleague in the harbor
  trust. Our late friend rendered such efficient service in the
  management of this important trust and was so fully in sympathy
  with every movement for the good of his country and this city
  in which he lived, as to secure the esteem and confidence of
  every member of the commission. At such a time we are aware that
  nothing can be said to assuage the natural grief of yourself and
  family, still we hope, Dear Madam, it will prove consolatory to
  you and yours, that your husband, our friend, has filled up his
  season of life with so many good deeds and in so exemplary a
  manner, and that although he has now gone from among us, he will
  be remembered by all who knew him. This we trust will be to you
  and your family a source of comfort and help you to bear with
  fortitude and resignation your present great affliction.

                                              “Thomas Cramp,
                                              “Hugh McLennan,
                                              “Andrew Allan,
                                              “Charles H. Gould,
                                              “John Young,
                                              “Adolphe Roy,
                                              “P. Donovan.

  “Harbor commissioners’ office, Montreal, July 28, 1876.”

The board of directors of the Richelieu & Ontario Navigation
Company, at its meeting on Friday, the 28th of July, 1876, passed
unanimously the following resolution:

  “Resolved: That this board of directors have received with much
  regret intelligence of the death of the late president of the
  company, Mr. John Pratt, whose long and valuable services in its
  behalf secured for him the gratitude, not only of the directors,
  but of every shareholder in the company. The directors desire
  to offer to his family the deep sympathy of every member of the
  board in the loss they have sustained, and to assure them of the
  high esteem in which the late Mr. Pratt was universally held.

                                              “Hugh Allan, president.
                                              “J. N. Beaudry, secretary.
                                              “Thomas Caverhill.
                                              “Andrew Allan.
                                              “William McNaughton.
                                              “Adolphe Roy.
                                              “D. Masson.
                                              “M. H. Gault.
                                              “Robert Anderson.”


THOMAS W. RITCHIE.

One of the most prominent members of the provincial bar was T.
W. Ritchie, who specialized in the practice of commercial law
in Montreal and represented many important corporations in his
professional connection. A native of Hatley, Quebec, he was born
in 1828. After careful preparation for active law practice he was
called to the bar in 1852 and opened an office in Sherbrooke.
In 1860 he removed to Montreal and became a member of the firm
of Rose, Monk & Ritchie. It was in 1867 that he was appointed
queen’s counsel. No dreary novitiate awaited him at the outset of
his professional career. He brought to its starting point several
rare gifts, strong individuality, marked strength of character
and high professional ideals, in addition to comprehensive
knowledge of the principles of law and ability to correctly apply
these. He continued in active practice as a member of the firm of
Rose, Monk & Ritchie until Mr. Monk was appointed to the bench.
The partnership relation under the firm style of Rose & Ritchie
then continued until Sir John Rose left Canada for England. Mr.
Ritchie was then joined by J. L. Morris and W. Rose, but the
latter left soon afterward and later Mr. Morris retired. Mr.
Ritchie then took in as partner Mr. G. H. Borlase, who remained
with him until 1879, when he retired. Mr. Ritchie then admitted
his son W. F. Ritchie to a partnership under the firm style of
Ritchie & Ritchie. The father was one of the most prominent
members of the bar of the province, ranking high as an advocate
in the department of commercial law and sustaining many important
professional relations. At the time of his death, on the 4th of
September, 1882, he was solicitor to the Bank of Montreal and the
Hudson’s Bay Company and was both director and solicitor to the
Montreal, Portland & Boston Railway. For many years he acted as
crown prosecutor for the district of Montreal. The court records
attest his high standing and his ability whereby he engraved his
name high on the keystone of the legal arch. It is the theory of
the law that the counsels who practice are to aid the court in
the administration of justice, and perhaps no representative of
the Montreal bar has been more careful to conform his practice to
a high standard of professional ethics than did T. W. Ritchie.


ALBERT GEORGE NICHOLLS, M. D.

One of the well known members of the medical profession in
Montreal, Dr. Albert George Nicholls has made continual progress,
and in the field of scientific attainment and research is
recognized as one of the most eminent in the profession in the
city. His investigations, carried far and wide, have brought
forth many valuable truths, and his contributions to medical
literature are largely accepted as standard.

Dr. Nicholls was born at Shotley Bridge, Durham, England, April
16, 1870, a son of the late Rev. John Nicholls and Mary Elizabeth
(Harland) Nicholls. The father was the well known pastor of St.
Mark’s Presbyterian church in Montreal for twenty-two years.
In England he became identified with the Methodist clergy
and was given charge of churches at Shotley Bridge, Durham;
Chester-le-Street, Hetton and Blyth, Northumberland. He was born
at Willenhall, Staffordshire, England, in 1840, and had reached
the age of fifty-eight years when he passed away in Montreal on
the 4th of May, 1898. He had been a resident of Canada for almost
a quarter of a century, having arrived in this country in 1874.
It was after he came to the new world that he connected himself
with the Presbyterian church and for twenty-two years remained
pastor of St. Mark’s. The names of few are so closely interwoven
with the history of moral progress in this city. For some years
he was a member of the Protestant Ministerial Association, was
editor of the Bible Reporter, and was a frequent contributor to
the press upon questions relative to the work of the church and
the extension of Christian influence. At the time of the smallpox
epidemic in Montreal he served on various committees formed to
relieve the situation and opened his church for the distribution
of relief. He was also one of the originators of the Fresh Air
Fund and while thoroughly versed upon dogmas and the principles
of theology, his religion was ever of that practical character
which found expression in good deeds, in ready sympathy, and
in immediate helpfulness. The survivors of his family are Mrs.
Nicholls; Dr. Albert George Nicholls, whose name introduces this
review; and a daughter, Miss Amy Nicholls, B. A.

Education received high rating in the Nicholls home and the son
was afforded excellent opportunities for acquiring knowledge that
would fit him for any field of labor to which he might choose to
devote his efforts. He attended McGill Model School, the Montreal
high school and afterward entered McGill University, where he
won the Bachelor of Arts degree and became gold medallist in
classics in 1890. Three years later his alma mater conferred
upon him the Master of Arts degree and in preparation for the
medical profession he pursued a course of study in McGill, which
won him the M. D. and C. M. degrees in 1894. In 1909 the Doctor
of Science degree was conferred upon him and in 1908 the honor
of F. R. S. C. Holding to the highest professional standards and
wishing to reach the highest possible point of proficiency, Dr.
Nicholls has gone abroad for study, doing post-graduate work
at Erlangen, Prague and Vienna. A successful practitioner in
Montreal, he has devoted much time to original research, more
especially in the scientific side of medicine. He is perhaps best
known for his work in connection with typhoid fever, Brights
disease, tuberculosis and some of the more obscure phases of
chronic inflammation and his views have been referred to in
several of the more recent authoritative text-books. He is the
author of more than forty monographs and other publications on
medical subjects, and his writings have largely been accepted
as standard by the profession in this section of the country.
He was joint author with Professor Adami of The Principles of
Pathology, a work of recognized value. He is equally well known
as a lecturer on clinical medicine and assistant professor
of pathology and bacteriology in McGill University. He is
out-patient physician to the Montreal General Hospital and
assistant physician and pathologist to the Western General
Hospital.

In May, 1907, Dr. Nicholls was married to Miss Lucia Pomeroy, the
youngest daughter of the late William H. Van Vliet of Lacolle,
P. Q., and they have three sons, George Van Vliet, John Van
Vliet and Robert Van Vliet. Dr. Nicholls is a conservative and
an ardent imperialist. His religious affiliation is with the
Presbyterian church, and he is a member of the University Club,
Montreal, and the Authors’ Club, London.

Those life forces which work for betterment, for progress and
improvement elicit his attention and receive his support, and he
is today recognized as a man of splendidly developed talents and
well balanced powers, so that he has become a forceful factor in
the world’s work.


CAPTAIN GEORGE HILLYARD MATTHEWS.

Success in business resulting entirely from capable management,
keen discrimination and unfaltering enterprise came to Captain
George Hillyard Matthews, who for many years was president of the
Sincennes-McNaughton Line. His birth occurred in Montreal on the
14th of August, 1846, and he passed away at the comparatively
early age of fifty-seven years, dying on the 19th of January,
1904. He was a son of George Matthews, of Mount Victoria, Hudson
and Montreal. The father came to Canada from Essex, England,
as a young man and in this country married a Miss Hudson, also
a native of England. They became the parents of six children,
including Captain Matthews, who received his military education
at Sandhurst, England, in 1871. The following year he entered the
army and served for a period of eight years, when he resigned.
He was an honorary member of the officers’ mess of the Third
Victoria Rifles and also honorary president of the Army and Navy
Veterans Association. He never ceased to feel a deep interest in
military affairs and believed in the maintenance of a high
standard of service in connection with the army and navy.

[Illustration: CAPTAIN GEORGE H. MATTHEWS]

Captain Matthews’ business affairs also brought him prominently
before the public. For many years he was president of the
Sincennes-McNaughton Line and during his term of office the
major portion of the harbor fleet of tugs was built under his
supervision. As opportunity offered he made judicious investments
in real estate and became the owner of a large amount of property
in Montreal. Following the death of Baron de Longueuil, he took
charge of his estate, which he wisely managed.

In 1878 Captain Matthews was united in marriage to Miss Virginia
Pratt, a daughter of John Pratt, one of the early settlers of
Montreal. He held membership in the St. James Club and he was
interested in various significant and vital questions of the day,
especially in fish and game protection. He also took an active
interest in politics. He was acquainted with all of the different
phases of public life having to do with the prosperity and
progress of his city and province, and his aid and cooperation
could always be counted upon to further movements for the general
good.


DAVID BURKE.

One of the best known insurance and financial men of Montreal
was the late David Burke, who passed away on December 5, 1913.
He was born in Charlottetown, P. E. I., in 1850, being the
youngest son of Edward and Mary (Acorn) Burke, both of whom were
natives of Prince Edward Island. He received his early education
in the schools of that province. In early manhood he turned his
attention to the insurance business, being but sixteen years of
age when he entered upon the field of labor in which he was to
attain to importance, making his name one well known in insurance
circles not only in Canada but also in the United States. In
1869 he came to Montreal, where he was associated in business
with his brother, the late Walter Burke, then general manager
for Canada of the New York Life Insurance Company. On the death
of the latter in 1879 the company retired from Canada owing to
differences with the insurance department at Ottawa. In 1883,
being willing to conform to the regulations set down by this
department, the company reentered Canada, and Mr. David Burke was
appointed general manager. In 1897 he retired from his connection
with this firm to organize an insurance company of his own, the
Royal Victoria Life Insurance Company, which was absorbed by the
Sun Life in 1911. He thus bent his energies to administrative
direction and executive control and his opinions were largely
accepted as authority upon matters connected with the complex
problems of insurance and the control of the business. In 1882 he
was elected an associate of the British Institute of Actuaries,
being one of its oldest members, and in 1897 was made a fellow of
the Royal Statistical Society of Great Britain. In 1904 he was
honored with election to the vice presidency of the Economic and
Statistical Society of Montreal and in 1906 was chosen president
of the Canadian Life Insurance Officers Association. For two
years he held the presidency of the Life Managers Association of
Canada, a body formed solely of the executive heads of insurance
companies in Canada, each company being represented in the
association by only one member. He studied every phase of the
insurance business with a thoroughness that made his opinions
standard, and he was the author of a valuable paper published in
1908 entitled “Insurance as a National Economy.” The Montreal
Witness spoke of him as one “recognized as a most capable
insurance administrator,” and his contemporaries and colleagues
speak of his business ability and resourcefulness in terms of
high admiration.

Mr. Burke was married in 1875 to Miss Rose Maclear, the youngest
daughter of the late Thomas Maclear, founder of the Maclear
Publishing Company of Toronto, and they were parents of four sons
and two daughters, as follows: Edmund A., the noted vocalist;
Louis, of New York; Alan, of Boston; Maurice N., of Montreal;
Mrs. Fred C. Budden, of Montreal; and Miss Marjorie Burke, of
Montreal.

Mr. Burke was a member of the St. James Club and in religious
faith an Anglican, while his political belief placed him in the
position of an imperial protectionist. His views of life were
those of a broad-minded man who delved deep into the questions
of vital importance and who proved himself the master of those
forces which made up his life’s experience.


JAMES JOHN EDMUND GUERIN, M. D., LL. D., T. C. D., K. C. S. G.

Dr. James John Edmund Guerin, medical practitioner and educator,
and an influential figure in the political history of the
province, having served with distinction as a member of the
Marchand and Parent cabinets and later as mayor of Montreal,
was born July 4, 1856, in the city which is still his place
of residence, a son of the late Thomas Guerin, C. E., chief
hydraulic engineer of the department of public works, Ottawa,
and a brother of the Hon. Edmund Guerin, one of the judges of
the superior court, Montreal. Dr. Guerin made his studies at the
Montreal College, and later entered McGill University for the
purpose of pursuing a course in medicine. He was graduated M. D.,
C. M. in 1878, and has since engaged in active practice in his
native city where he has also done important hospital work. He is
the president of the medical board of the Hôtel-Dieu Hospital and
one of the governors of the Notre Dame Hospital; in educational
circles he is well known as professor of clinical medicine in
Laval University. He holds to the highest professional standards
of ethics and enjoys the warmest regard of fellow practitioners.
He is a director of the Royal Edward Institute and a governor of
the Victorian Order of Nurses, and in 1909 he was appointed a
member of the royal commission to prevent the further spread of
tuberculosis.

Capable and prominent as is Dr. Guerin in his chosen profession,
he has also become equally widely known in connection with
political activity and has done much important work. In 1895
he was elected president of the St. Patrick’s Society and was
reelected in 1896 and 1897. In the former year he was a delegate
to the Irish National Convention at Dublin. In October, 1895,
he was returned to the legislature for Montreal in the liberal
interests by a majority of twelve hundred and fifty-four. In
1897 he was reelected in the general election and was called to
the Marchand cabinet without portfolio on the 25th of May of
that year. He was a minister without portfolio in the Marchand
and Parent administrations from 1897 to 1904, and in 1901 was
appointed member of the council of public instruction of the
province of Quebec. His opinions carried weight in provincial
councils and a discussion of any vital question with him at once
indicated how widely and thoroughly he was informed concerning
the points at issue. In February, 1910, as the candidate of the
citizens’ party, he was elected mayor of Montreal by a majority
of twelve thousand nine hundred and eighty-three and in his
administration sought at all times to further the best interests
of the city. He conducted its civic affairs along economical
lines and yet never fettered municipal progress by a narrow
conservatism. He represented the city of Montreal at the funeral
of King Edward in London in 1910 and at the coronation of King
George and Queen Mary in 1911. In 1911 he was created a Knight
Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, and in 1912 he
received the degree of LL. D. from Trinity College, Dublin.

In 1883 Dr. Guerin was married to Miss Mary Carroll O’Brien,
daughter of the late Hon. James O’Brien; she died in 1886. Dr.
Guerin resides at No. 4 Edgehill Avenue. His religious faith
is that of the Roman Catholic church. Aside from serving as
president of St. Patrick’s Society he has been president of the
Shamrock Lacrosse Club and of many other organizations. He is
a member of the Mount Royal Club, the University Club and the
Montreal Jockey Club. His activity along various important lines
indicates his worth and value as a citizen, and his indorsement
at the polls testifies to the confidence reposed in him by his
fellow citizens. His ideals of citizenship are high, while in his
professional career he manifests the keenest appreciation for the
responsibilities and obligations which devolve upon him.


ANDREW STUART EWING.

Andrew Stuart Ewing, for almost half a century one of the best
known business men of Montreal, was born in 1838 at Lisdillon
House, Londonderry, Ireland, and was a representative of an old
family of Irish origin, his parents being Samuel and Margaret
(Hamilton) Ewing, who crossed the Atlantic to Canada with their
family when their son, Andrew, was seven years of age. He was
educated in the public schools of Montreal and in 1860 entered
into partnership with his brother, Samuel H. Ewing, in the
ownership and management of the extensive coffee and spice mills
formerly owned by his father, who founded the business in 1845.
In 1860 the firm style of Samuel Ewing & Sons was assumed and in
1892, after the retirement of Samuel H. Ewing, Andrew S. Ewing
became sole proprietor of the business which was conducted at No.
55 Cote Street. The enterprise was one of extensive proportions
and yielded a substantial profit as a result of careful
management and wise direction.

During the last fifteen years of his life Mr. Ewing was a
prominent member of the Montreal Board of Trade and was
interested in its various projects for promoting the material
progress of the city and advancing affairs of municipal and
civic interest. In politics he was a conservative and a strong
supporter of the national policy.

Mr. Ewing died at his home in Montreal, January 8, 1902, and was
survived by his widow until June, 1913. The surviving children
are Andrew Stuart and Royal L. H. Ewing and two daughters, Mrs.
Robert Starke and Miss Adelaide Ewing. The sons are members of
the firm of Ewing & Ewing, real estate and insurance, which was
established in September, 1906, by the brothers in connection
with A. F. Gault, but the last named retired from the firm May
1, 1912. A. Stuart Ewing is a member of the Art Association
of Montreal, the Canadian Club, the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association, the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club, the St. James
Club, the Manitou Club and the Park Toboganning Club, of which he
is vice president.

Mr. Royal L. H. Ewing is a member of the Art Association of
Montreal, the Montreal and Canadian Clubs, the Montreal Amateur
Athletic Association, the Mount Royal Lawn Tennis Club, the Royal
St. Lawrence Yacht Club, the St. James Club, the Manitou Club
and the Park Toboganning Club. The sons are worthy successors
to their father, not only in business activity but also in that
business integrity for which the family name has always stood.


FRANK RICHARDSON ENGLAND, M. D., C. M.

Dr. Frank Richardson England, an alumnus of Bishop’s College
of Montreal and now well known as a practical educator as well
as a successful practitioner, was born August 21, 1862, at
Cowansville, province of Quebec, and is the eldest son of Francis
and Jane (Ruiter) England, of Dunham, Quebec. The family comes of
United Empire Loyalist stock and the parents are now deceased.

While Dr. England acquired his early education at Waterloo, he
pursued his medical course at Bishop’s College in Montreal, from
which he was graduated with the class of 1885, the degrees of M.
D. and C. M. being then conferred upon him, and obtaining the
Wood and Nelson gold medals. He was professor of diseases of
children at Bishop’s College in 1887 and professor of surgery
in the same institution in 1894. In 1905 he was graduated at
McGill College (ad eund). The profession has honored him with
official distinction, for in 1906 he was chosen president of
the Montreal Medico-Chirurgical Society and the following year
was vice president of the Canadian Medical Association. He is a
governor and fellow of the American College of Surgeons. He is
now, 1914, surgeon of the Western Hospital at Montreal and in his
surgical practice displays comprehensive knowledge of anatomy, of
the component parts of the human body and of the onslaughts made
upon it by disease or left to it as a legacy by progenitors. He
is cool and collected at critical moments and combines strength
with tenderness, seeking ever the ultimate good of patient and of
profession.

Dr. England was married twice. In 1887 he wedded Carrie Ann,
youngest daughter of the late R. L. Galer, of Dunham. Following
her death Dr. England married Octavia Grace Ritchie, B. A., M.
D., of Montreal, the youngest daughter of the late Thomas W.
Ritchie, Q. C. She was born in Montreal and became a student
in McGill University, winning the degree of Bachelor of Arts,
together with first class honors in natural science in 1883.
She was afterward graduated from Bishop’s College, Lennoxville,
Quebec, with the degree of M. D. and C. M. in 1891. She was
one of the first class of ladies to graduate from McGill and
the first woman to receive a medical degree in the province of
Quebec. Mrs. England took a scholarship at Kingston and later
pursued a post-graduate course at Vienna, Austria. She has done
much to arouse public feeling in favor of the medical education
of women in Quebec and was secretary of the organization called
the Donalda Students to procure this concession. She is now a
governor of the Western Hospital and was assistant gynecologist
there from 1894 until 1896. She has lectured on medical subjects
before the Women’s Club and the Young Women’s Christian
Association. She is a member of the Montreal Medico-Chirurgical
Society and was a delegate to the Quinquennial Congress of the
National Council of Women at Toronto in 1909. She is president of
the local council of the National Council of Women. In 1897 she
became the wife of Dr. Frank Richardson England of Montreal. Both
continue actively in the practice of the profession, and each has
a large clientage, indicating the prominence to which they have
attained.


WILLIAM JOHN WHITE.

William John White, whose authorship no less than his practice
has gained him eminence and success, is regarded as one of the
foremost representatives of the Montreal bar. Contemporaneous
writers pronounce upon him high encomiums for his contributions
to legal as well as to general literature. A native of Peterboro,
Ontario, he was born January 29, 1861, a son of the late Richard
White, D. C. L., and Jean (Riddel) White. After completing his
studies in the Montreal high school he entered McGill University,
where he pursued a classical and legal course, winning the B.
A. degree in 1881, the degree of Bachelor of Civil Law in 1882,
while in 1885 the Master of Arts degree was conferred upon him
and in 1902 that of Doctor of Civil Law. He completed his legal
studies at the Sorbonne in Paris and in 1883 entered upon the
active work of the profession as an advocate. He has since
successfully practiced and was created king’s counsel in 1899. He
is now senior partner of the law firm of White & Buchanan and is
recognized as one of the leaders of the Montreal bar. In 1901 he
was made batonnier. His law practice has been of an important as
well as of an extensive character. He was retained as counsel by
the Mexican government in the boundary dispute between the United
States and Mexico in 1911. His high standing in his profession
and his thorough understanding of vital and significant
governmental problems have brought him into prominence in various
international affairs. He served as a member of the board of
investigation appointed by the minister of labor in the United
Shoe Machinery case, and his opinions have been sought on various
questions of far-reaching importance. He represented the Montreal
bar at the annual meeting of the New York State Bar Association
at Albany in 1902 and at the Illinois State Bar Association in
1906, and on the latter occasion read a paper on The Law of
Quebec. He is the author of a treatise on Canadian Company Law
which was published in 1901.

Aside from his profession Mr. White has been connected with
several business enterprises and public projects of importance.
In 1911 he became one of the directors of the Sherwin-Williams
Company of Canada, and from 1906 to 1908 he served as alderman
of the city. He is a director and was elected the vice president
of the new Technical School of Montreal. He was one of the
founders of the Society of Historical Studies and was chosen to
the presidency of that organization for 1891-2. He was likewise
one of the organizers of the Society of Canadian Literature
and of the Canadian branch of the American Folk Lore Society.
From 1889 until 1891 he published a monthly magazine known as
Canadiana and Dr. John Reade termed him “A writer of taste and
force,” while the Montreal Witness spoke of him as “A thoroughly
capable man.” Mr. White belongs to a number of the leading clubs,
including the St. James, University, Outremont Golf and the
Montreal Jockey Clubs of Montreal; the Rideau Club of Ottawa;
the Quebec Garrison Club; and the Constitutional Club of London,
England. It is in his law practice, however, that he has won the
recognition that has placed him in the present enviable position
which he occupies. He has ever in his practice been faithful to
his clients, fair to his adversaries and candid to the court. In
many cases with which he has been connected he has exhibited the
possession of every faculty of which a lawyer may be proud--skill
in presentation of his own evidence, extraordinary ability in
cross examination, strong grasp of every feature of the case,
power to secure favorable rulings from the judge, unusual
familiarity with human nature and untiring industry. These
qualities have gained him notable success in law practice.


ROBERT REFORD.

At the time of his death half a century was drawing to its
close since the subject of this sketch, the late Robert Reford,
first established a commercial connection with Montreal. The
outstanding position which Mr. Reford occupied in the life of the
city was the natural outcome of qualities which quickly bring
men to be recognized as a source of strength to whatever spheres
in which they may move. He was a man of very pronounced ability,
tenaciousness of purpose, firmness of decision and of forceful
character but by those who knew him best he will be remembered,
chiefly for those high standards of honor which were his for the
straightforwardness and uprightness of all his dealings with his
fellowmen and for the strong sense of justice which throughout
his long career he was so often called upon to exercise.

Robert Reford was born at Moylena, which for generations had been
the family seat near Antrim, Ireland, in 1831 and was a lad of
fourteen when in 1845 he came with his mother, three brothers
and one sister to make his home in Canada. The family arrived at
Quebec the night of the great fire when the lower town was almost
completely destroyed. After a very brief stay in Montreal they
settled in Toronto, where Mr. Reford completed his education. He
was, however, still but a boy when he became engaged in business
and, though he was indentured to work for his first employer
for two years at a fixed salary, it is indicative of the great
natural capacity which he possessed and of his steadiness and
alertness in business, that at the end of the first year his
salary was increased fivefold and again at the end of the second
year that amount was doubled. In three years time, still
barely on the threshold of manhood, Robert Reford had proved his
ability to such an extent as to be offered a partnership with
William Strachan in a wholesale and retail grocery business which
the latter was about to open. This offer was accepted but the
firm dissolved after a few years duration and Mr. Reford started
a business on his own account, which he continued to conduct
alone for several years, only taking Richard Dunbar as a partner
when he acquired, by purchase, from William Ross, another large
wholesale business of the same nature. The two businesses were
run separately, one as Reford & Dunbar, the other in partnership
with the late John Dillon, as Reford & Dillon, wholesale grocers
and merchants. It would indeed have been strange if a man, imbued
with the spirit of enterprise and courage, as was Mr. Reford to
a very remarkable degree, had been content to remain without
some wider scope for his abilities than that offered, even by a
successful wholesale business. It was not long before he took the
initial step which was to lead him so far along the path of that
vast question of transportation.

[Illustration: ROBERT REFORD]

Mr. Reford was one of the pioneer workers in this direction,
entering the carrying trade, in the early ’60s. He amassed a
considerable fortune during the forty odd years he was engaged in
shipping pursuits but never did he lose sight of the fact that
Canada’s interests as a whole are intimately and indivisibly
bound up in every phase of the shipping industry, nor did he ever
fail to consider and work towards the benefit of those wider
interests of his adopted country.

The operation of vessels on the Great Lakes was the beginning
of Mr. Reford’s shipping enterprises. In 1860 he equipped the
schooner “Seagull” and sent her with a general cargo of Canadian
produce to Port Natal, South Africa, thus being the first man to
undertake direct shipping connection between Canada and that part
of the world.

In 1865, associated with his old friend William Ross, the firm
opened a branch in Montreal. This was the commencement of the
present Montreal firm. The business was now assuming large
trading proportions with Great Britain, the United States,
China, Japan, the West Indies and other foreign countries;
nevertheless it soon began to confine itself more strictly to
ocean shipping. The firm became agents and part owners of the
Thomson and Donaldson lines. When the story of the growth of
Canada’s shipping comes to be written the name of Robert Reford
will loom up largely on its pages. Mr. Dillon severed his
connection with Mr. Reford in the shipping business in 1897 and
it was then that the present company, the Robert Reford Co.,
Ltd., was incorporated, with very extensive steamship services of
six different lines to many of the world’s principal ports and
with branch offices established in Quebec, Toronto, St. John,
New Brunswick, and Portland, Maine. Canada owes not a little
to Mr. Reford for contributing so materially to the opening up
of new markets for her produce along the east coast of Great
Britain, and also for the building up of further valuable
trade connections by giving direct shipping communication
between Canada and the Mediterranean ports. Every aspect of the
carrying trade had been studied by him with that thoroughness
and regard for detail which characterized the man in everything
he undertook. His opinions and advice on shipping and on
transportation generally were appreciated as those of an expert,
and sought after by people from all over the Dominion.

Apart from his shipping enterprises, which remained the main
issue of his commercial life, the most important of his other
business activities was his interest in the Mount Royal Milling
and Manufacturing Company. Mr. Reford founded the company
in 1882 for the milling of rice, with mills in Montreal and
Victoria, British Columbia, and acted as its president up to the
time of his death. He was also president for many years of the
Charlemagne & Lac Ouareau Lumber Company, president of the York
Lumber Company, president of the Crown Trust Company and vice
president of the Labrador Company; and a director of the Bank
of Toronto, of the Lake of the Woods Milling Company and of the
Paton Manufacturing Company.

From 1901 to 1905 Mr. Reford was a member of the Montreal Board
of Harbour Commissioners and in 1903 was a delegate to the fifth
congress of the Chambers of Commerce of the Empire, but no
doubt his chief public service was rendered first as a member
and then as chairman of the Royal Commission on Transportation,
1904-1905. The work involved in this important commission
necessitated its members visiting every Canadian port, from the
Atlantic to the Pacific, with a view to recommending all possible
desirable improvements for the increase of and facilitating the
transportation trade appertaining to the Dominion, both ocean
and inland. The commission sent in an exhaustive report to the
government in December, 1905, based on very thorough personal
observations and study, together with the result of carefully
gathered evidence of those residents in the different sections
of Canada who were best fitted to judge. It strongly advocated
the building of the Georgian Bay canal and the formation of
national ports on the Atlantic and Pacific, the St. Lawrence
and the Great Lakes. Further, it was urged that there should
be a fast all-round-the-world British steamship service which
would bind together more closely all portions of the empire,
by taking advantage of the shorter ocean route which services
between Canada and Europe, via Great Britain on the east, and
Asia and the Orient on the west, could offer, if Halifax and
Galway were used as the termini for the Atlantic coasts. Mr.
Reford’s work on this commission was stupendous, but none of it
was done in the light of the public eye. Few knew of the great
personal sacrifices which it demanded and which were willingly
made by this man of then seventy-four years. In fact all his life
Mr. Reford avoided rather than sought any kind of prominence or
recognition.

Many of Montreal’s educational and charitable institutions looked
to him for guidance and help and whether the requests came to
him for his advice, or for financial support, provided he was
in sympathy with the object, to either his response was equally
ready and generous. He was a governor of McGill University and
was the first to respond to an appeal for aid by donating fifty
thousand dollars towards a fund for the increase of salaries of
the professional staff. In 1911 when the campaign for the general
funds of the university was made, it found in him one of its
leading spirits and most ardent supporters. Again he gave proof
of his faith in the higher education of men’s minds as being
an asset of immeasurable national value and set the inspiring
example of a one hundred thousand dollars contribution.

Could we mention all the hospitals, homes for the aged poor and
for little children, and in fact every kind of philanthropic
institution which knew and enjoyed his generous help, the list
would indeed be a long one and few such in Montreal omitted from
it. Some of his largest donations were to the Montreal General
Hospital of which he was a life governor and to which in recent
years he gave thirty-five thousand dollars; to the Young Men’s
Christian Association he gave ten thousand dollars, and a like
sum to the Diocesan Theological College.

In manner the late Robert Reford was somewhat abrupt but this
arose purely from that eagerness and energy which every move of
the body seemed to betray, and not from any unkindly feeling.
He was an exceptionally clear thinker, his mind worked with
precision; his plans were made and carried out with unvarying
promptitude and method which perhaps supply the key to his
amazing capacity for the accomplishment of work. Self indulgence
knew no place with him and to the end he adhered to his stern
habits of life, granting himself but little respite and no
holidays. From the age of twenty-two when he was made captain of
No. 4 Company in the Queen’s Own Rifles his interest in civic
affairs never waned. He fought untiringly for reforms, often with
a lack of support which would have discouraged most men, but this
North of Ireland man was not of such stuff. He was of the kind
which the hand of Providence seems to have scattered far from
their native shores, over the face of the British Empire to give
it that salt, without which it could have no savor.

Mr. Reford was twice married; first to Miss Margaret McCord,
daughter of A. T. McCord, chamberlain and treasurer of the city
of Toronto, who died within a year after the marriage. In 1866 he
married Miss Katherine S. Drummond, daughter of Andrew Drummond
of Stirling, Scotland. Mrs. Reford survives him, as do five of
his children, they being: Robert Wilson Reford, president of the
Robert Reford Co., Ltd.; A. D. Reford; L. L. Reford, M. D.; Mrs.
H. B. MacDougall; and Miss Kate Reford.

Mr. Reford was a member of St. George’s church and a stanch
believer in the power of the church to be a light unto the
lives of men. In all things he acted as he believed and so the
community is bereft of a personality of strength, of courage and
of truth.


MORRIS STANSFELD BLAIKLOCK.

Morris Stansfeld Blaiklock entered the service of the Grand
Trunk Railway over thirty years ago and since 1907 has held the
position of engineer of maintenance and survey in connection with
this road. He is a son of the late Frederick William Blaiklock,
who died in 1900, and Elizabeth (Whittaker) Blaiklock, who died
in 1889. The father was public land surveyor and head of the
Cadastral Bureau of Montreal. The family has long been prominent
in engineering circles, the grandfather of our subject, Captain
Blaiklock, having been one of the Royal Engineers. A brother of
our subject was the late Major W. F. Blaiklock, of the Royal
Scots. The family is of English origin.

Morris S. Blaiklock was born in the city of Quebec on the 19th of
July, 1859. He pursued his early education in a private school in
Quebec and upon the removal of the parents to Montreal in 1870
attended the high school in this city, rounding out his course
by receiving private tuition. He then studied architecture for
three years and in 1879 entered the employ of the Grand Trunk
Railway as assistant engineer, remaining in that position until
1889, when he became resident engineer for the St. Clair Tunnel
Company in connection with the same road, holding this office
until 1892. In that year he was promoted to the position of
inspector, continuing as such until 1897, when he became engineer
of the eastern division of the Grand Trunk Railway. In 1902 he
was appointed superintendent of the eastern division and in
1907 engineer of maintenance and survey for the system. He has
held this latter office ever since. He is one of the foremost
men in his line, basing his success upon native ability, a vast
experience and executive force of rare quality.

On November 12, 1889, Mr. Blaiklock married Miss Mary Elizabeth
Tunstall, eldest daughter of the late Gabriel C. Tunstall, of
Ste. Anne de Bellevue, province of Quebec. Mr. and Mrs. Blaiklock
have two children, Jessie B. and Stansfeld. The family residence
is at No. 405 Mackay Street, Montreal. Mr. Blaiklock is a
member of the Church of St. James the Apostle (Episcopalian).
Politically he is an independent conservative.


ALEXANDER MICHAUD.

Progressive citizenship in the twentieth century finds a
prominent exemplar in Alexander Michaud, mayor of the city of
Maisonneuve, who is an active factor in public affairs and
business life of the city. His clear insight, his keen sagacity
and his public spirit have made his influence a potent factor in
bringing about not only Canada’s commercial progress, but also
her moral uplift. He might be termed a practical idealist, for,
while he strives for the betterment of many civic and commercial
conditions, the methods which he employs take cognizance of
present day situations and opportunities and present none of
the impractical views of the dreamer. In a word, he is a man of
action rather than of theory.

Mr. Michaud is a representative of one of the old French families
of Quebec, while the maternal line is of an unadulterated Irish
strain. He was born January 27, 1868, at Back River, Quebec, a
son of J. B. and Norah (Connolly) Michaud. His education was
acquired at the Christian Brothers school and in the Plateau
Academy of Montreal. In 1881 he entered the employ of his father,
who was a well known miller and flour merchant, remaining with
him until 1885. During that period Alexander Michaud, while
acting principally in a clerical capacity, also acquired a good
general knowledge of the business in its various departments.
In 1885 he accepted a position with A. L. Hurtubise & Company,
grain merchants of Montreal, with whom he remained for several
years in the capacity of bookkeeper and confidential clerk. His
ability gained him recognition, followed by promotion, and at the
time he resigned his position in that house he was manager of the
business.

[Illustration: ALEXANDER MICHAUD]

It was then that Mr. Michaud organized the firm of Michaud
Brothers & Company, which soon took a foremost position among
the leading wholesale grain and export firms of Montreal.
Its existence covered a period of about fifteen years and an
extensive business was conducted, constituting another forward
step in the career of Alexander Michaud. However, recognizing the
fact that the field of real-estate activity and land speculation
in Montreal afforded great opportunity for profitable investment,
he withdrew from active connection with the grain trade and
entered the real-estate business. It is unusual for a man who
has been so long identified with one line of business to make so
radical a change, but the subsequent success of Mr. Michaud is
indicative of his splendid business foresight and capability.
The success that he has achieved in the real-estate business has
been substantial, is well deserved and represents methods that
have lent dignity to the undertaking. There are few, if any, who
have more intimate or comprehensive knowledge of realty values
or whose judgment is more to be relied upon and these facts have
served to bring him an extensive and desirable clientage.

In connection with his public career a Montreal paper has said:
“Perhaps the field in which Mr. Michaud was best known to the
citizens of Montreal is political. He was an alderman and was
president of the finance committee of Maisonneuve from 1905
to 1909 and was elected mayor by acclamation three times in
succession. During this time Maisonneuve has made those wonderful
strides in growth which have been the admiration of the entire
country and have placed herself on a footing which is attracting
the attention of the entire world. The part played in this
great advance in manufacturing and commerce by the city is not
a little due to the energy and foresight of her mayor, who has
brought his business acumen and farsighted commercial judgment
into play in running the civic side of affairs, the same as he
did as a merchant or miller. Mr. Michaud prefers to talk about
Maisonneuve rather than about himself, about the opportunities
there are there for capital, the splendid locations for factories
and the many other inducements which have made the city one of
the leaders in commercial advancement during the past five years.
It is an interesting subject and more Aladdinlike than Africa
diamond mines or the gold strewn coasts of Alaska.” It may be
mentioned here that Maisonneuve, though surrounded by the city of
Montreal, is an entirely separate city, having its own autonomy.

Perhaps the most unique point in Mr. Michaud’s public career
is its cause. Like many other men who had been similarly
attracted to that locality, Mr. Michaud took up his residence
in Maisonneuve but with neither time nor inclination for public
office. The city at that period had a population of seven
thousand. Twenty-four liquor licenses had been issued and the
town, in modern parlance, was “wide open.” It was a great
rendezvous for hundreds of people from Montreal who would go down
there on Sundays, the open saloons serving as a great attraction.
This disregard of the law and the undesirable notoriety it gave
the town aroused the indignation of the better class of citizens,
who, however, were powerless, owing to the inactivity of those
who were in charge of the city government. Mr. Michaud was one
who set about to bring order out of chaos and while his first
article in the local papers attracted attention, his second and
subsequent ones certainly aroused the opposition of the lawless
element whose arrogance had so long held sway. Personal violence
was threatened Mr. Michaud and his residence was attacked by
a mob that broke every window within reach. Missiles of every
description were hurled inside. This cowardly attack instead of
intimidating Mr. Michaud, only spurred him on to further action
and showed that the Irish blood in him could mean fight--not
fight in the brutal sense of the mob but with that courage that
comes of honest conviction combined with fearlessness. In the
face of such bitter opposition Mr. Michaud became a candidate
for alderman, was elected and wielded such an influence in favor
of good government and progress that from the time he entered
politics to the present he has made a most creditable record. No
citizen of Maisonneuve has worked so incessantly or taken greater
pride in what has been accomplished. That city today, with forty
thousand population, contains but nineteen licensed saloons, all
conducted under strict observance of the law. He is, indeed, a
resourceful man and in the management of public affairs displays
the same spirit of careful watchfulness and wise control that
he does in conducting his private interests. He was named by
the provincial government a member of the Metropolitan Parks
commission of Montreal, of which body Sir William Van Horne is
president.

In 1909 Mr. Michaud was the chief factor in the organization
of the Dominion Light, Heat & Power Company and during the two
years of its successful operation, before being absorbed by the
Montreal Public Service Corporation, he was prominently connected
with its management. He is a man but little past middle age and
his whole capital when starting in life was energy and ambition,
yet he has been highly successful, not only in the way of
winning prosperity, but also in valuable service to the city and
province. He gets much out of life in comfort and pleasure and
has never lived solely to accumulate wealth, but has ever been a
lover of nature and of outdoor life and it is only severe weather
that prevents him from enjoying the four and a half mile walk
daily from his office to his home. In the latter his greatest
interest centers and he is always happiest when in the company of
his family. Mr. Michaud was married February 21, 1898, to Miss
Marie Virolle and to them have been born four children: Margaret,
Paul, Germaine and Alexander. Mr. Michaud is an indulgent father
and the comrade of his children. For a number of years he has
spent the summers with his family at Old Orchard, Maine.


JOHN MILNE BROWNING.

In the later years of his life John Milne Browning lived retired
in Montreal. He was of Scotch birth, a native of Edinburgh,
born in June, 1826. His father, Matthew Browning, died when
the son was a young man and the latter, who had been educated
in the schools of his native country, came to Canada in 1852,
when twenty-six years of age. He located at Beauharnois, where
he continued until 1873 and then removed to Montreal, where he
resided through the succeeding fifteen years. In 1888 he went to
British Columbia, where he lived for eleven years, but on the
expiration of that period returned to Montreal, where he spent
his remaining days in well earned and honorable retirement from
business. He had been a land commissioner and was also connected
with the Canadian Pacific Railway Townsite Company. He displayed
excellent business ability in that connection and handled
important realty interests.

In 1855 Mr. Browning was united in marriage to Miss Magdeline
H. Norval, born in 1833, in Beauharnois, Quebec, a daughter of
R. H. Norval, who came from Edinburgh when twenty-one years of
age and remained thereafter a resident of Canada until his death
in 1856. His daughter, Mrs. Browning, has seen Montreal develop
from a comparatively small place into a wonderful city, being
ever an interested witness of the changes which have occurred.
It was on the 20th of December, 1906, that Mr. Browning was
called from this life and his loss was mourned in the various
localities where he was well and favorably known. He was a member
of a number of clubs and won popularity in those organizations.
His public spirit found tangible expression in many ways and his
religious faith was evidenced in his membership in the Crescent
Street Presbyterian church. His life was honorable and upright at
all times and he left behind him an untarnished name.


JAMES POWER CLEGHORN.

Prominent for many years among the merchants of Montreal was
James Power Cleghorn and equally well was he known through
his support of charitable and philanthropic projects and his
cooperation in affairs of public benefit. He was born in
Montreal, October 31, 1830, and his life record covered the
intervening years to the 14th of December, 1911, when he passed
away. He was a son of Robert Cleghorn, who came to Montreal at a
very early day. The latter married Miss Eliza Power, a native of
Sorel, province of Quebec, and whose father was connected with
the commissary department of the army. Their family numbered ten
children. Robert Cleghorn was a public-spirited citizen and a
man of domestic tastes, and the influences of a home of culture
and refinement left their impress upon the life of James Power
Cleghorn, who with the passing years rose to prominence along the
different lines in which he exerted his activities.

He was educated at Howden & Taggart’s Academy and entered
commercial circles as junior clerk in the mercantile house of J.
G. Mackenzie & Company of Montreal in 1853. In that establishment
he gradually worked his way upward until admitted to partnership
in 1864, after which he had largely control of the business,
which was extensive in proportion and which ranked with the
oldest mercantile houses of the city. Mr. Cleghorn, however,
did not confine his efforts entirely to one line. In fact he
became recognized as a power in other business connections, both
commercial and financial, and was elected to the directorate of
the Intercolonial Coal Company, the Sun Life Assurance Company
of Canada, the Merchants & Manufacturers Association, the Canada
Accident Company and Molson’s Bank. He served as president of
the Board of Trade and it was during his incumbency of the
office that the site for the present building was selected. He
was also a trustee of the Mount Royal Cemetery Association and
the president of the Intercolonial Coal Company. His cooperation
was likewise sought in behalf of those institutions where
humanitarian principles must combine with executive ability in
successful management. He was made a governor of the Montreal
General Hospital, of the Montreal Hospital for the Insane and the
Montreal Dispensary. An active member in the Church of England,
he served as a delegate to the synod and cooperated in its work
along many helpful lines. In politics he was a conservative and
he stood ever for the welfare of the people.

On the 14th of February, 1865, Mr. Cleghorn was married to Miss
Anna Spalding, of Port Hope, Ontario, who was born in Peterboro,
Ontario. Five children were born to them: George S., connected
with the W. R. Brock Company, Limited; C. Power, a general
insurance broker, who married Florence Fechheimer, of New York,
and to whom have been born two children, James Power and Helen
Power; Emily C.; Helen G., who died at the age of thirteen years;
and James Herbert, whose death occurred when he was eighteen
years of age.

The family residence is at No. 256 Bishop Street, and their
summer home, “Blinkbonny” is situated at Como in the province of
Quebec. The death of Mr. Cleghorn left a gap in those circles
where he had moved as a central figure. In business and social
relations and in his connection with humanitarian interests he
had established himself in an enviable position by reason of
personal worth and capability, and his name is inscribed high on
the list of Montreal’s valued citizens.


GEORGE WASHINGTON STEPHENS.

If one would seek a fitting poetical phrase to express the life
work of the Hon. George Washington Stephens these lines might
well be chosen:

    “He leaves a patriot’s name to after times
    Linked with a thousand virtues and no crimes.”

For an extended period he was in public life, and whether
connected with municipal, professional, or national affairs
was always the same public-spirited, progressive citizen, ever
seeking the welfare of the constituency which he represented.
He was born in Montreal in 1832, the second son of Harrison and
Sarah (Jackson) Stephens. The father removed from the state of
Vermont to Montreal in 1828 and for years was a leading merchant
of the city.

George W. Stephens was educated at high school, afterward
entering business circles. He became identified with the firm of
Law Young & Company, but after a time determined to enter upon
professional activities, and with this end in view took up the
study of law, following a law course at McGill University, which
conferred upon him the B. C. L. degree. Called to the bar in
1863, he at once entered upon active practice and for some time
was a partner of the late John A. Perkins, an eminent barrister
of Montreal. Mr. Stephens personally conducted the cause celebre
of Connolly versus Woolrych, which he brought to a successful
conclusion. The case was a notable one, awakening widespread
interest among the legal fraternity and establishing the validity
of an Indian marriage, celebrated according to the custom of the
tribe.

After a number of years devoted to successful law practice, Mr.
Stephens was obliged to abandon the profession in order to assume
the management of his father’s estate, and proved himself
equally capable, sagacious, farsighted and enterprising in that
connection. His ability and his devotion to the general welfare
led to his selection again and again for public office. In 1868
he was elected alderman of Montreal and for seventeen consecutive
years remained a member of the city council, during which period
he served on several occasions as acting mayor. He did much
during that period toward shaping the policy of city affairs and
upholding those interests which are a matter of civic virtue and
civic pride. In fact he became distinguished for his constant
opposition to wrong-doing and dishonesty, and his stalwart
support of a prudent and economical progressive administration.
From the time that age conferred upon him the right of franchise
he advocated the principles of the liberal party and upon its
ticket was elected to the provincial legislature, representing
Montreal Centre in the Quebec assembly from 1881 until 1886,
and so earnestly and faithfully guarded the public interests
as to earn the title “watch dog.” At the general election of
1892 he was returned for Huntingdon and was reelected at the
general election in 1897. On the formation of the Marchand
administration in May of the latter year he was called into the
cabinet, without portfolio. He was the organizer of the Good
Government Association of Montreal and in January, 1897, received
the thanks of that body for his “vigorous efforts and judicious
action” in the Quebec assembly in reference to certain local
measures. In 1896 he promoted a measure prohibiting indecent
play bills and posters being displayed on the public streets. No
one ever questioned the honesty and virtue of his position and
his belief. Though others may have differed from him in policy
they recognized the patriotic spirit which actuated him in all
his public service, and none was more earnest in opposition to
misrule in public affairs.

[Illustration: HON. GEORGE W. STEPHENS]

Aside from his active work in the assembly, Mr. Stephens utilized
many other opportunities for advancing public progress and
improvement. He was at one time a member of the council of the
Montreal Board of Trade, was president of the Mercantile Library
Association and president of the Citizens Gas Company. He was
also a governor of the Montreal General Hospital and of the
Protestant Hospital for the Insane. His cooperation could ever
be counted upon in support of any measure or plan to ameliorate
the hard conditions of life for the unfortunate and, as a member
of the Unitarian church, he took an active interest in all good
works done in the name of charity or religion.

Mr. Stephens married first in 1865, Elizabeth Mary MacIntosh and
afterward in 1878, Frances Ramsay MacIntosh, daughter of Nicholas
Carnegie MacIntosh, of Edinburgh, Scotland. For many years
Mrs. Stephens was president of the Decorative Art Association
of Montreal and a recognized leader in social circles. She has
accomplished work of far-reaching importances and benefit in
connection with the Woman’s Immigrant Society; the Soldiers’
Wives League, which was organized during the South African war;
the Maternity Hospital, and the Montreal Cooking School. In
religious faith she is a Unitarian and in more strictly social
lines is connected with the Canadian Woman’s Club, the Ladies
Morning Musical Club and the Royal Montreal Ladies Golf Club.
The children are two sons and two daughters: Major G. W. and F.
C. Stephens; and Mrs. J. Wedderburn Wilson and Mrs. A. Hamilton
Gault.

Mr. Stephens was devoted to his family and ever held friendship
inviolable. He belonged to both the St. James and Union Clubs and
his military experience covered service as a cavalry major until
he was placed on the retired list, his connection being with the
Montreal Rifle Rangers. One of the leading newspapers styled
him “a liberal of the old school, fearless and brave.” The same
qualities characterized him throughout his entire life in every
relation, and many who were his associates and contemporaries
felt at his passing, which occurred at his country residence, Lac
à l’eau Claire, in 1904, that,

    “He was a man. Take him for all in all
    I shall not look upon his like again.”


MAJOR VICTOR EVELYN MITCHELL.

Public opinion accords Major Victor Evelyn Mitchell a position
of leadership among the members of the Montreal bar, not only
because of his extensive practice and the ability displayed
therein, but also because of his contribution to the literature
of the profession. His military record also gives him right to
public recognition. A native of London, England, he was born
October 17, 1865, and is of English lineage, his father having
been James Mitchell, of London, England. In the attainment
of his education he attended the City of London school and
afterward McGill University, where he won his B. C. L. degree and
valedictorian honors in 1896. The same year he began practice
as an advocate in Montreal with the late R. D. McGibbon, K. C.
He had been a resident of Canada for eight years, and thus it
was that his preparation for the bar was pursued in McGill.
The ability which he has displayed in practice is indicated by
the fact that he was created K. C. in 1909. He is now a member
of the firm of McGibbon, Casgrain, Mitchell & Casgrain and
devotes himself to corporation and commercial law. He published
the first English edition of the The Code of Civil Procedure
and in conjunction with J. L. Perron, K. C., brought out an
Insolvency Manual. He is not unknown in the educational field,
having lectured on The Legal Aspects of Trade Unionism and on
Warranties and Representations re Contract of Life Insurance.
All this establishes his position as a lawyer well versed in his
profession and capable in handling intricate and involved legal
problems. He is also a well known publicist; his letters to the
Montreal Star on the naval question created great interest and
showed a thorough knowledge and study of the subject.

Aside from his professional interests Major Mitchell has become
known in business circles and in connection with projects of a
public or semi-public character. He is a director of Penman’s,
Ltd.; the Canadian Consolidated Rubber Company; Ames, Holden,
McCready, Ltd.; the Canadian Consolidated Felt Company, Ltd.; the
Charlemagne & Lac Ouareau Lumber Company, Ltd.; and many other
commercial companies. He is also a director of the Laurentian
Sanitarium and a governor of the Montreal General Hospital and
the Western Hospital.

For some years Major Mitchell was connected with the volunteer
military service, joining the Sixth Fusiliers in 1889, and when
that regiment amalgamated with the First Prince of Wales Rifles
in 1898 he became senior major in that corps. In 1900 he was
placed on the list of retired officers.

Major Mitchell was married in 1911 to Miss Sarah Proulx, and
they reside at No. 377 Peel Street. Major Mitchell holds
membership with the Anglican church and is well known in club
circles, belonging to the St. James, Canada and University Clubs,
the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club, the Montreal Jockey Club,
Outremont Golf Club, Royal Montreal Golf Club, the Manitou Club
of Montreal, the Railroad Club and the Alpha Delta Phi Club of
New York and the United Empire Club of London, England.


WALTER HARDMAN ARDLEY.

A well known figure in railroad circles of Montreal is Walter
Hardman Ardley, who since 1913 has acted as general auditor of
the Grand Trunk Railway system and Grand Trunk Pacific Railway.
A native of London, England, he was born April 24, 1858, and is
a son of James and Elizabeth (Dunton) Ardley, the former of whom
passed away during the early childhood of his son Walter and the
latter in 1896.

Mr. Ardley was educated in the City of London College and made
his advent in the business world as an apprentice in a London
office. He came to Canada in November, 1882, entering the service
of the Grand Trunk Railway, in the chief accountant’s office,
on November 5, 1882. Steadiness of purpose, faithfulness and
diligence won him advancement. On December 31, 1907, he was made
chief clerk and general bookkeeper and so continued until August
31, 1908, when he became auditor of disbursements. He held this
office until September 30, 1908, when he became assistant general
auditor, and in 1909 he was made general auditor of the Grand
Trunk Railway system and Grand Trunk Pacific Railway. Mr. Ardley
stands high in the estimation of the officers of the road on
account of the efficient management of his department.

On December 12, 1889, Mr. Ardley married Miss Tamar Jane
Phillips, a daughter of Henry Phillips, of Upway, England. He is
independent politically and a member of the Church of England.


REV. HERBERT SYMONDS.

A man who has made his zeal and commanding ability the basis
of an important work not only in the cause of religion but in
the public service along lines of charity and reform is Rev.
Herbert Symonds, since 1903 vicar of Christ Church Cathedral,
Montreal. He is a prominent orator and preacher, an able writer
and an untiring worker for the promotion of religious and social
advancement and is regarded as one of the vital forces in the
spread of movements looking toward Christian unity. He was born
in Rickinghall-Inferior, Suffolk, England, December 28, 1860,
and is a son of George and Hannah (Wright) Symonds. He studied
in Framlingham College in England and in Trinity University,
Toronto, Ontario, from which he was graduated with the degree of
B. A. in 1885, receiving the degree of M. A. and the prize for an
English essay and sermon in 1887. He holds the honorary degree of
D. D., given him by Queen’s University in 1901, and the honorary
degree of LL. D., conferred upon him by McGill University in 1910.

Rev. Herbert Symonds came to Canada in 1881 and four years later
was ordained deacon in the Anglican church. He received orders
as a priest in 1887 and from that year to 1890 was a fellow and
lecturer in Trinity University in Toronto. The next two years he
spent as professor of divinity in the same institution and in
1892 was made rector of St. Luke’s church in Ashburnham, Ontario.
He resumed his work as an educator in the year 1901, being made
headmaster of Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ontario,
serving in that capacity from 1901 to 1903. In the latter year
he was transferred to Montreal and made vicar of Christ Church
Cathedral in this city, and he has since held the position, which
affords him an excellent scope for his talents and abilities
and in which his work has carried him forward into important
relations with Anglican affairs. He was president of the Montreal
Protestant Ministerial Association in 1905, first president of
the Canadian Society of Christian Unity and in 1910 a delegate
to the World’s Missionary Congress, held in Edinburgh, and the
Anglican Church Congress, held in Halifax, Nova Scotia.

Mr. Symonds married, in March, 1883, Miss Emma Blackall, fourth
daughter of the late Mossom Boyd, of Bobcaygeon, Ontario, and
both are well known in social circles of Montreal. Since 1907
Mr. Symonds has served as Protestant school commissioner and
he is well known in military circles, having been from 1896 to
1907 chaplain of the Third Prince of Wales Canadian Dragoons and
since that time chaplain, with the honorary rank of major, of
the First Regiment, Prince of Wales Fusiliers. He is a member
of the Masonic fraternity and is a past grand chaplain of the
grand lodge of Quebec. A writer of great force and power, he
has made many contributions to The Week and Expository Times of
England and other papers and is the author of articles on Trinity
University and University Federation, published in 1894, on
Christian Unity, published in 1899, and The Anglican Church and
the Doctrine of Apostolical Succession, 1907. He is regarded as
one of the ablest preachers in the Anglican pulpit at the present
time and has made this talent also a force in the accomplishment
of a great and lasting work.


HENRY HOGAN.

Very few if any men in Montreal were any better known in their
respective lines of business than was Henry Hogan, in connection
with the hotel business. He occupied a position among his
contemporaries that made him a unique personage. The story of his
life is best told by the history of the hostelry, St. Lawrence
Hall, that his name had made famous and over which he had charge
for upwards of a half century. Mr. Hogan was born at La Tortue,
near Laprairie, on the 12th of April, 1820, and was a son of
Nicholas Hogan, who served in the British army in the Peninsular
war and at Waterloo under the Duke of Wellington. He was
engaged in the woolen manufacturing business in Manchester,
England, and upon coming to Canada established a mill at La
Tortue. He met his death from drowning, the result of the giving
way of the rail on a boat, which precipitated him into the St.
Lawrence river. He was survived by a widow and several children.

[Illustration: HENRY HOGAN]

Henry Hogan was but a boy when he came to Montreal and his
early training in a business way began in the line of business
of which he made such a great success in later life, the hotel
business. In 1851 he became proprietor of what was then called
the Hogan Hotel, in which enterprise he was in partnership with
Messrs. Borden and Compaine, but both men retired early, being
succeeded in the firm by Frederick Penn, who remained a partner
with Mr. Hogan until 1869. After that time the latter was alone
as sole proprietor of St. Lawrence Hall. In 1856 he was one of
the prominent factors in the grand banquet given by the citizens
in the Hall to mark the opening of the Grand Trunk Railway, on
which occasion many distinguished citizens were his guests.
In 1860 he entertained the members of the suite of the Prince
of Wales, later His Majesty, King Edward VII. In those days
Mr. Hogan entertained many people of title and prominence. The
story of this hotel has its own connection with the history of
Canada, for under the roof of St. Lawrence Hall there occurred
many things that led to the present-day development of the
Dominion. Here Mr. John A. Macdonald, later the great Sir John,
met his sturdy opponent, Mr. George Brown, and exchanged views
on the best means of uniting the scattered provinces. From this
beginning confederation was achieved and Mr. Hogan performed his
share in these events and at all times faithfully carried out
the duties of citizenship. St. Lawrence Hall was for many years
the best known hotel in Canada and one of the best known on the
continent. Princes of the royal blood, soldiers and statesmen,
political refugees, artists and poets, stars of the operatic and
dramatic stage partook of its hospitality and their names recall
events of bygone days. The opening of Victoria bridge brought
many notables to the Hall, and during the progress of the Civil
war in the United States the clank of the sword was heard at St.
Lawrence Hall, which became the headquarters for the Confederate
representatives and southern refugees. Jefferson Davis and John
Wilkes Booth were guests of the Hall, and during the Trent affair
it was the headquarters of the officers. During the trial of John
Surratt, the register of the Hall was taken to Washington and has
never been returned. After the Civil war, General Sherman, of
the Union army, and also one of the most prominent Confederate
generals visited Montreal and were entertained by Mr. Hogan, as
was Henry Ward Beecher and other distinguished Americans. The
banquets held at St. Lawrence Hall were noted affairs, the place
being the scene of many brilliant social gatherings.

The ancestral records of the Hogan family included the names of
many prominent in military circles and Henry Hogan also took
a deep interest in these affairs, being for years commanding
officer of the Montreal Field Battery, of which he was lieutenant
in 1855, afterwards became colonel and assumed command, retiring
with that rank in 1866. Mr. Hogan had been connected with
numerous business enterprises aside from his hotel interests.
He always had implicit confidence in the future of Montreal and
made investments that proved highly profitable. His business
ability won him success and prominence in his chosen field and
his capability, tact and resourcefulness made him an ideal host,
whether entertaining a little private gathering of friends or a
large concourse of notable and eminent citizens at a banquet. In
religious belief he was a Unitarian. His death occurred October
9, 1902, and he was survived by a widow, two sons, Henry H. and
Lawrence H., and also two daughters: Anna W., now the widow of
Major Low, of the British army; and Marion E., who died unmarried.


MARTIN MONTGOMERY REYNOLDS.

Martin Montgomery Reynolds enjoyed the reputation of being one of
the foremost experts in railroad accounting and finance. He had
thirty years of experience along that line and was connected with
roads in the United States and Mexico until he came to Canada
in 1908 as fifth vice president of the Grand Trunk Railway and
third vice president of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway. At his
death, which occurred June 17, 1914, he held the position of vice
president in charge of the financial and accounting departments.

Martin M. Reynolds was born in Syracuse, New York, and educated
there. His first notable position in the railroad world was that
of auditor of the Mexican National Railroad, which office he held
until 1892. He then went to Vermont as general auditor of the
Central Vermont Railroad, which office he held until 1896. From
1896 to 1899 he was auditor for the receivers of this road, and
from 1899 to 1902 auditor for its successor, the Central Vermont
Railway. From 1902 to 1904 he was comptroller of the National
Railway of Mexico and in 1904 accepted in addition to this office
the comptrollership of the Mexican International Railway and the
Interoceanic Railway of Mexico, continuing in this office until
1908. In that year he came to Montreal as fifth vice president
of the Grand Trunk Railway and third vice president of the Grand
Trunk Pacific Railway, and in 1910 was promoted to the third vice
presidency of the Grand Trunk. From 1911 Mr. Reynolds was vice
president in charge of the financial and accounting departments
of the Grand Trunk and Grand Trunk Pacific and affiliated lines.
His office was one of the most important in the service. Mr.
Reynolds was also a director of the Canadian Express Company.

In 1894 Martin M. Reynolds was united in marriage to Miss Flora
Livingstone and they resided at the Linton apartments, Montreal.
Although he was in Montreal only a few years he quickly became
imbued with the Canadian spirit and his aims and interests became
thoroughly Canadian.


CHARLES A. BRIGGS.

Charles A. Briggs was an active business man of Montreal, well
known and respected. He conducted a retail fur store under his
name on Notre Dame Street, and careful management and wise
direction of his interests wrought the substantial success which
eventually came to him. A native of Montreal, he was born
October 3, 1839, a son of Russell Briggs, who came to this city
from Vermont and here spent his remaining days. Charles A. Briggs
was indebted to the public-school system of Montreal for the
educational opportunities he enjoyed. In early life he acquainted
himself with the fur business and eventually became proprietor
of a retail fur store on Notre Dame Street. He closely applied
himself to the conduct of the business and his able management
and reliable methods were strong elements in his growing success.

In 1862 Mr. Briggs was united in marriage to Sarah S., a daughter
of Mansfield Holland, who in early life came from Maine to
Montreal and was actively identified with the infant industrial
development of the city, building the first rolling mill here and
also a nail and spike factory, making the first railroad spike
manufactured in Canada. His plant was located on Mill Street
and there he continued actively and successfully in business
throughout the remainder of his days, his death occurring in
1883. He was then seventy-four years of age, his birth having
occurred in 1809. He was twenty years of age when he arrived in
Montreal in 1829, becoming a most active factor in its business
circles, for, with the growth of his enterprise, he employed
many men. His wife was in her maidenhood Miss Gould and by their
marriage they became the parents of twelve children. Mr. and Mrs.
Charles A. Briggs became the parents of seven children: Charles
Russell; Celia; Florence; Edwin; Dr. George Nixon; Henry, who
died young; and Ethel.

Mr. Briggs held membership in St. James Cathedral, to the support
of which he made generous contribution. He stood stanchly in
support of many of those factors which work for the betterment
of the individual and for the community and at the same time he
conducted a successful business indicative of his ability and his
enterprise.


JOHN A. PILLOW.

Standing deservedly high in the respect of all who knew him,
John A. Pillow was regarded as a progressive business man and
valuable citizen of Montreal, of which city he was a native. He
was educated in the public schools and for many years ranked as
one of Montreal’s oldest and best known manufacturers. In his
business career he made advancement step by step, gaining thus a
broader outlook and wider opportunity. He made wise use of the
advantages that came to him and eventually reached a position of
prominence in manufacturing circles. It was in the late ‘60s
that he succeeded to the rolling mill business of T. D. Bigelow
& Company, which was one of the oldest establishments of the
city, having been founded for a century. Forming a partnership
with Randolph Hersey, he continued the business under the firm
name of Pillow & Hersey. Later this was converted into a stock
company and Mr. Pillow was elected to the presidency. He stood
deservedly high in the regard of his contemporaries in commercial
circles. Business men knew him as one whose word was thoroughly
reliable, who met every obligation and kept every engagement, and
the record which he thus made was one which any might envy. He
was very thorough and competent in all that he did, neglecting no
details and at the same time developing his interests along the
broad lines characteristic of business enterprise at the present
day.

Mr. Pillow was united in marriage to Annie Elizabeth Hillyer, and
their surviving children are two sons, Laurence B. and Howard
W. He was a man of domestic tastes, devoted to the welfare of
his family and finding his greatest happiness in promoting
their interests. He rejoiced in his prosperity not merely from
the standpoint of success but because of the opportunity which
it gave him to provide liberally for his family and to give
generously to the poor and needy. He attended the American
Presbyterian church and in his life exemplified his Christian
faith. He was much interested in the welfare of his native city,
cooperating in many movements that have promoted its interests
along various lines. He belonged to the Board of Trade and his
social nature found expression in his membership in St. James
Club, the Forest and Stream Club and the Manhattan Club of New
York. Death called him February 16, 1902. He had remained a
lifelong resident of his native city and his worth was widely
recognized by those who had been his associates in business and
by those who met him in social relations.


JAMES ELLIOT.

James Elliot, for more than half a century one of the best known
bankers of Montreal, was born June 2, 1840, in this city, and was
the eldest son of the late Andrew and Sarah (Pullan) Elliot. The
father was a native of Northumberland, England, and following his
arrival in Montreal in 1832 became a well known contractor of the
city.

After acquiring a thorough education in the Montreal high school
James Elliot entered the dry-goods establishment of the late
Mr. Alexander Molson, and after a time spent in that connection
entered Molson’s Bank in 1860. In 1870 he became accountant and
further promotion came to him in recognition of his ability
in his appointment to the position of manager of the Montreal
branch in 1879. Step by step he advanced in his connection with
financial interests until he became recognized as one of the
foremost bankers of the city. In May, 1900, he was appointed
general manager, which position he ably filled until his death,
December 19, 1913. In banking circles he was recognized as a man
of exceptional ability, prudence and sagacity, and was termed
both a model man and a model banker. That he occupied a position
of distinction in business and financial circles was evidenced by
the large number of business men who paid their last tribute of
respect to his worth when he passed away.

Mr. Elliot was for many years a councillor of the Canadian
Bankers Association and was otherwise officially connected with
interests of importance to the public, being a life governor
of the Montreal General Hospital, a vice president of the
Montreal Prisoners Aid Association and an active factor in
philanthropic work. Mr. Elliot was also an attendant at the
Melville Presbyterian church. His political support was given to
the conservative party. Although he was past the allotted age
of three score years and ten when called from this life, Mr.
Elliot’s friends were drawn largely from the younger generation.
He was a quiet, unostentatious gentleman of the old school, whose
delight outside of his business was his home and garden on Cote
St. Antoine road. This home was one of the early residences in
Westmount and when erected more than a quarter of a century ago
was surrounded by open fields.

[Illustration: JAMES ELLIOT]

Mr. Elliot was unmarried. After providing with great liberality
for near relatives he bequeathed five thousand dollars to
the Montreal General Hospital, five thousand dollars to the
Protestant Hospital for the Insane and a thousand dollars each
to the Western Hospital, McKay Institute, Grace Dart Home,
the Protestant House of Industry and Refuge and the Salvation
Army. His bequest to these many organizations showed his
broad-mindedness and his deep interest in the welfare and uplift
of his fellowmen.


JOSEPH ARTHUR COUTURE.

Joseph Arthur Couture, a notary public practicing in Montreal
and in Maisonneuve, was born on the 29th of December, 1881, at
Sherrington in the county of Napierville, P. Q., his parents
being Jules and Dométhile (Bourgeois) Couture. He represents two
of the old French families of the province. His great-grandfather
and his grandfather, both of whom bore the name of François
Couture, were farming people, the former following agricultural
pursuits at Lacadie, while the latter was a farmer at St. Cyprien
in the county of Napierville. He married Sophie Ward and their
family included Jules Couture, who married Dométhile Bourgeois.
Her father, Pierre Bourgeois, was at one time a farmer at St.
Jean, P. Q., and later at St. Cyprien, where he was residing
at the time of his death. His wife was a member of the Granger
family. Jules Couture was born in St. Cyprien, county of
Napierville, and made farming his life work, but since 1900 has
lived retired, his home being in the village of Napierville. His
wife was born in the parish of St. John, P. Q., and died on the
15th of September, 1907. They had a family of twelve children, of
whom three daughters and five sons are living.

Joseph Arthur Couture, the youngest of the family, attended the
parish school to the age of ten years and afterward studied
with the parish priest of Sherrington for three years. He
next entered Montreal College, where he pursued a five years’
classical course and later became a student in the Seminary of
Philosophy, where after two years, or in 1902, he won his degree
of Bachelor of Letters. In September of that year he matriculated
in Laval University where he studied law in preparation for the
notarial profession, receiving his LL. L. degree in 1905. He was
received as a notary in July of the same year and in September
began practice in the village of Napierville, where he continued
until the 1st of October, 1906. He then removed to the city of
Maisonneuve, where he continues in practice, and at the same
time maintains an office in the city of Montreal. He is likewise
a commissioner of the superior court in and for the district of
Montreal. He carefully prepared for his chosen calling and his
knowledge of the law and his understanding of all phases of the
notarial profession have given him high rank among his associates
in that field of labor.

Mr. Couture is also interested in some syndicates, purchasing
lots on the island of Montreal. He is a director of La Société
du Boulevard Pie IX, Limitée and of Salmon River Gold Fields
and of the Montreal Consolidated Real Estate and Investments,
Limited. His connection therewith has resulted in bringing him
good financial returns, while in his profession he is making
continuous advancement.

On the 9th of October, 1905, Mr. Couture was married to Miss
Mathilda Ida Lachapelle, a daughter of Alfred and Mathilde
(Beauchamp) Lachapelle, the former in his life time a merchant
of Montreal. Mrs. Couture died at Maisonneuve, at the age of
twenty-seven years, on the 17th of December, 1913, leaving no
issue. Mr. Couture is a member of the Roman Catholic church
and in politics he was formerly a conservative but became a
nationalist as he did not approve of the naval policies of either
the liberal or conservative parties. He is still, however, a
member of the Montreal Liberal-Conservative Club. He was for
three years recording secretary of Court Gounod No. 3240, I. O.
F., of which he is now deputy chief.


HON. J. O. VILLENEUVE.

The name of Hon. J. O. Villeneuve is inseparably interwoven
with the history of Montreal and its progress. Modesty at all
times characterized his bearing and simplicity his habits, yet
the sterling worth of his character and the high order of his
ability brought him to a position of leadership in connection
with municipal and provincial affairs. He labored untiringly for
the best interests of Montreal while acting as chief executive
of the city and was equally faithful in his support of matters
relating to the provincial welfare when serving as senator. A
native of the county of Terrebonne, he was born at Ste. Anne des
Plaines, on the 4th of March, 1837, and his life record covered
the intervening period to the 27th of June, 1901, when he passed
away at the age of sixty-four years. He was but a young lad at
the time of the removal of his father, Octave Villeneuve, and
the family to Montreal, so that he was indebted to the school
system of this city for his educational opportunities. He started
in the business world as clerk in a dry-goods store in 1853,
when a youth of sixteen years, and his traits of loyalty and
faithfulness were manifest from the beginning, as is evidenced
by the fact that he remained with one establishment until 1865.
Ambitious to engage in business on his own account, he carefully
saved his earnings until his industry and economy had brought him
sufficient capital to enable him to open a grocery store at Mile
End. There he conducted business for some time and subsequently
founded the wholesale grocery house of J. O. Villeneuve &
Company, which rapidly gained patronage and a high and well
merited reputation in commercial circles. He was a farsighted
man and one who on recognizing a public need at once sought
to meet it. Realizing the lack of communication between the
extreme northern section of Montreal and the outlying parishes,
he established an omnibus route in 1860 between Mile End,
Terrebonne, Sault au Récollet and New Glasgow, which he later
sold to the Montreal Street Railway when it seemed feasible to
extend the railway lines into that section.

Mr. Villeneuve was frequently called to public office and it is
a notable fact in his career that no public trust reposed in
him was ever betrayed in the slightest degree. For more than
seventeen years he was mayor of St. Jean Baptiste village and
again, when the organization of the town took place, he served
for four years more, carefully guiding the interests of village
and town so as to bring about needed reforms and improvements.
Following the annexation to the city in 1885 he represented
St. Jean Baptiste ward from that date until 1894 in the city
council and as a member of the finance committee his experience
in financial matters was found to be of great service to the
public. Higher official honors awaited him, however, for in 1894
he was elected Montreal’s mayor and filled that position for two
years, proving a capable executive and one who most carefully and
systematically safeguarded the public interests. For eighteen
years he served as warden of the county of Hochelaga and in 1886
was elected to represent that county in the Quebec legislature,
where his record was so commendable that he was reelected in
1890 and again in 1892. In 1888 he was made a member of the
harbor commission and served for several years on that body.
In January, 1896, he succeeded the late Hon. Joseph Tasse as
senator for the De Salaberry division. All this, however, did
not cover the many phases of his activity. For many years he was
a member of the Board of Trade, and he had important business
connections, serving as director of the Dominion Cotton Company,
in addition to which he had other large manufacturing, mercantile
and real-estate interests in the city. He was resident director
of the Banque Nationale and a member of the harbor board and a
governor of Laval University. He was also senior partner of the
firm of L. Villeneuve & Company, wholesale lumber dealers.

In 1861 Mr. Villeneuve married Miss Susan Ann Walker, a daughter
of Captain James Walker, of Sorel, Quebec, who survives together
with their four children. Her father was a captain in the
regiment stationed at Sorel and was a son of Dr. Edward Walker,
surgeon of that regiment. Jacques Villeneuve, the eldest of the
four children, residing at St. Jerome, Quebec, is proprietor of a
stone quarry and brick manufacturing business there. He married
Miss Lamontague and they had seven children, Jacques, Edgar,
Charles Eugene, Lia, Adrienne, Marguerite and Jeanne. For his
second wife Jacques Villeneuve wedded Miss Poitevin, and they
have a son, Jean. Eugene W., the second member of the family,
was born in Montreal in 1865 and was associated in business with
his father until the latter’s death. He brought about the royal
commission, giving a change of administration and management of
the city by a board of control. In November, 1910, at a meeting
held at St. Jean Baptiste market hall, he proposed that the
centenary of the birth of Sir George Etienne Cartier should be
appropriately commemorated and that steps should be taken for the
erection of a monument to his memory. Since then the monumental
enterprise has assumed not only national but empire scope and
representatives of every portion of the empire will be present at
the commemorative celebration September 6, 1914. Mr. Villeneuve
has served faithfully as president of the executive committee in
charge of the celebration and the erection of the monument. He
married Miss Alice Crompton, and their children are James and
Reginald. Frederic Villeneuve, the third member of the family,
is a graduate of Laval University and was afterwards advocate
in Montreal and in Edmonton, Alberta. For several years he was
editor of Canadian West and for four years, from 1898 until 1902,
sat for St. Albert in the legislature. In 1909 he was appointed
librarian of the Montreal Civic Library. He married Miss Howie,
of St. Johns. Rachel Villeneuve, the youngest of the family,
married Alphonse Morin, protonotary of St. Johns. Their children
are Josephine, Louise, Susan, Pierre Villeneuve, Lucie, Madeleine
and Andre, and they reside at No. 629 Dorchester West.

The death of Hon. J. O. Villeneuve occurred on the 27th of
June, 1901, at the family residence at 862 St. Denis Street.
Editorially the Gazette said of him: “Senator Villeneuve is dead
at the comparatively early age of sixty-four. His career was a
typical one and included fully thirty years of public service,
municipal and parliamentary. His straightforward conduct and good
faith gained him general respect and for almost a generation
he could count on election to whatever office in the gift of
the county of Hochelaga or city of Montreal he aspired to. His
municipal career was crowned by the mayoralty of Montreal and
his political work by a senatorship. He was a thoroughly well
meaning man, of modest bearing and simple habits, whose innate
worth was behind his business and public success. In his death
Montreal loses a good citizen and parliament a member of safe
judgment and right purpose.” To thus win the merit and plaudit
of the press shows that the life of Hon. J. O. Villeneuve was
one of far-reaching usefulness and of importance in Montreal. He
neglected no opportunity, slighted no duty nor passed unheedingly
the chances to benefit city or province by helpful service on his
part.


JOHN DILLON.

John Dillon, for many years one of the best known merchants of
Montreal, was a member of the firm of Reford & Dillon. He was
born in Chambly, March 18, 1836, a son of John Dillon, Sr., a
native of Belfast, Ireland, who emigrated to Canada and for some
years resided in Toronto and Montreal, his death occurring in the
latter city in 1875. He was father of two sons, George Graham
and John Dillon. The former passed his active business life in
Toronto, where he was connected with the retail dry-goods house
of George Bowes & Company. He died in Toronto, while his widow,
Mrs. Catherine Jacques Dillon, passed away in Montreal. They were
survived by a daughter, Miss Elisabeth J. Dillon, who for many
years lived with her uncle, John Dillon, who never married.

It was in Toronto that John Dillon formed a partnership with
Robert Reford under the firm name of Reford & Dillon, wholesale
grocers, and in 1867 the business was moved to Montreal. This
association continued for about forty years and the business
was most successfully and capably conducted according to
modern progressive methods. A few years prior to his death Mr.
Dillon retired from the firm, but maintained his interest in
other industrial and commercial institutions. Up to the time
of his death he was a director of the Mount Royal Milling and
Manufacturing Company and was also vice president of the Gould
Cold Storage Company. His business judgment was sound, his
discrimination keen and his enterprise unfaltering. He could see
farther than many a man in business circles, foretelling the
outcome of any enterprise from the beginning and, moreover, he
had the power to coordinate and unify forces into a harmonious
whole.

[Illustration: JOHN DILLON]

Mr. Dillon was much interested throughout his lifetime in
charitable work and among other institutions with which he was
actively associated was the Old Brewery Mission. He was an active
member of the Dominion Square Methodist church, which he joined
as a charter member upon its organization.

The Montreal Star in announcing his death on the 15th of May,
1908, said, “In the death of Mr. John Dillon which took place
this morning very suddenly at his residence, 19 McGregor Street,
Montreal loses one of its oldest and most respected citizens. Mr.
Dillon, who had been in good health, was speaking to a relative
about 11:30 today, when he was overcome by heart failure, his
death taking place almost immediately. Thus passed onward one who
always strove to do his duty by his fellowmen.”


CARLOS A. HAYES.

Carlos A. Hayes, who for a number of years was connected with
the Grand Trunk Railway, lastly as freight traffic manager,
was on July 1, 1913, appointed general traffic manager of the
Canadian Government Railways, with headquarters at Moncton, New
Brunswick. Mr. Hayes has long been prominently connected with
Canadian railway service and has in that way contributed toward
the opening up of vast natural resources in the Dominion.

He was born in West Springfield, Massachusetts, March 10, 1865,
and when a boy of seventeen entered the railway service in 1882,
continuing along that line with various roads in the United
States until the year 1892, when he was made New England agent
and, in 1896, manager of the National Despatch-Great Eastern
Line. He held this position until 1903, when he became connected
with the Grand Trunk Railway as assistant general freight agent
in Chicago. Readily grasping railroad problems and possessed of
the true generalship of a railway executive, he was chosen in
1908 to succeed J. E. Dalrymple as general freight agent of the
Grand Trunk, with headquarters at Montreal, and there remained,
first as general freight agent and later as freight traffic
manager, until his recent appointment. Mr. Hayes is a well
known figure in Dominion railway circles and stands high in the
estimation of business men.


JOHN EDWARD MARTIN.

John Edward Martin, K. C., a well known member of the Montreal
bar, was born in September, 1859, at Shefford, in the province of
Quebec. He received his early education in the public school at
Waterloo, P. Q., and at McGill Normal School, and later entered
McGill University, where he graduated with the Degree of Bachelor
of Civil Law in 1883, being the medallist of that year.

In July, 1884, he was admitted to the practice of law and
began the practice of his profession at Sweetsburg, P. Q., in
partnership with the late Senator Baker. In 1893 he removed
to Montreal and for over twenty years has been a member of the
law firm of Foster, Martin, Mann, Mackinnon & Hackett, and his
constantly expanding powers brought him prominently before the
public as an able lawyer and led to his being named king’s
counsel in 1903.

The litigated interests intrusted to his care have on the whole
been of a most important character, and he has successfully
practised before all the courts of the province, the supreme
court of Canada, and has frequently appeared before the judicial
committee of the privy council in London, England.

Mr. Martin has specialized in corporation and insurance law,
and his preparation of cases is always thorough and exhaustive,
and the court records indicate his ability in securing verdicts
favorable to his clients.

He was a member of the council of the bar of Montreal for several
years and batonnier of the bar of Montreal and batonnier-general
of the bar of the province of Quebec during the year 1913-1914.
In 1913 he was elected an honorary member of the American Bar
Association.

Mr. Martin has been married twice. His first wife, Nellie,
daughter of J. Rooney of Sweetsburg, P. Q., died in January,
1909. In December, 1910, he married Emily Violet, daughter of
James Patterson of Guelph, Ontario.

In politics Mr. Martin is a conservative, and he is a member of
the Anglican church. He is a member of the Mount Royal, Forest
and Stream, Canada and the Laurentian Clubs. He has a wide
acquaintance among the leading residents of the city, where his
ability and personal worth have gained for him the high regard of
those with whom he has come in contact.


JAMES ALEXANDER LAWRASON STRATHY.

James Alexander Lawrason Strathy, long a factor in financial
circles in Montreal, was born in London, Ontario, July 22, 1857,
where his father, James B. Strathy, was at one time collector
of customs. The mother, Mrs. Elvira Strathy, was a daughter of
Dr. Hiram D. Lee and of United Empire Loyalist stock. Liberal
educational opportunities were accorded the son, who was educated
in the Moncrieff Preparatory School, in Hellmuth College at
London, Ontario, and in Upper Canada College. At the age of
seventeen years he came to Montreal and entered the employ of
the brokerage firm of Gordon Strathy & Company, later becoming
a partner in the business. He subsequently was admitted to the
Montreal Stock Exchange, while six years later he became a member
of the Board of Trade. In the following years he devoted all his
time to the Montreal Trust & Deposit Company, of which he was
one of the organizers. He was appointed general manager of the
business and remained with the company until his death. He was
also a member of the executive committee of the Royal Electric
Company and in business connections gave evidence of his ability
to handle important interests and solve intricate problems.

Mr. Strathy was a justice of the peace of Montreal and in
official position made a record equally creditable with that
which he won in business. He was a member of St. Andrew’s Society
and vice president of the United Empire Loyalist Association.
Distinction and honors also came to him along military lines,
his military record dating from his appointment as second
lieutenant of the Fifth Royal Scots of Canada, in 1880. He was
advanced to the rank of captain in 1884, became major in 1891 and
was made lieutenant colonel, commanding his regiment, in 1893,
so continuing until his connection with the regiment ceased in
December, 1897. In 1894 he became vice president of the Canada
Military Institute at Toronto and the same year was appointed
to the staff of the governor general of Canada as an extra
aide-de-camp.

Mr. Strathy was widely known in sporting circles. As a gentleman
rider he was the winner of the Montreal Hunt Cup Steeplechase
in 1880, 1881 and 1886 and of the American Grand National Hunt
Steeplechase at Saratoga in 1882 and of the steeplechase open
to gentlemen riders. His political allegiance was given to the
conservative party and the interests and duties of citizenship
found ample recognition in his life activities.

On the 9th of January, 1885, Lieutenant Colonel Strathy was
married to Miss Margaret, daughter of Andrew Robertson, of
Montreal, and they became the parents of six children, of whom
five are living: Marguerite F., Isabella D., Alison L., R. Lee A.
and Elvira M. The family circle was broken by the hand of death
when on the 7th of October, 1901, Lieutenant Colonel Strathy
passed away. He was a popular member of the St. James Club and
his position as a business man and in military and sporting
circles classed him with the representative residents of his city.


JOHN RIGNEY BARLOW.

John Rigney Barlow, a civil engineer, who in 1900 was appointed
to the position of city surveyor of Montreal, has since served
in that capacity and is one of her best known civic officials. A
native of Scotland, he was born at Stornoway, Lewis, on the 29th
of July, 1850, a son of the late Robert Barlow of the Canadian
Geological Survey. The first five years of his life were spent
in the land of hills and heather, after which the family came
to the new world. John R. Barlow was reared in Montreal and
started in the business world in the employ of the Canadian
Geological Survey, with which he remained from 1872 until 1875.
He then entered the service of the corporation of Montreal in
1876, and did important duty in that connection. He was engaged
in the construction of water works in the town of St. Henri and
did other important duties. He became assistant city engineer
of Montreal in 1880 and was made deputy city surveyor in 1882.
Further advancement came to him in his appointment to the
position of city surveyor in 1900, and he is now acting in that
capacity. He thoroughly understands the scientific principles
which underlie his work as well as every practical phase of the
business and now occupies an enviable position among the civil
engineers of Montreal.

In March, 1877, Mr. Barlow was married to Margaret Coutts, a
daughter of the late Rev. William Darrach, and they reside at No.
78 St. Luke Street. Mr. Barlow is a member of the Engineers Club
and also of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, in which
he was elected to membership in 1887. His fraternal relations
are with the Masons, and his religious faith is that of the
Presbyterian church. His professional relations have brought him
an extensive acquaintance, while his sterling traits of character
have gained him firm hold upon the affectionate regard of those
with whom he has been brought in contact.


WILLIAM SMITH.

Clearly defined purposes and close application were salient
features in the career of William Smith, who died in Montreal on
the 14th of March, 1910, when nearly eighty-four years of age. He
was born in Lanarkshire, Scotland, September 20, 1826, and came
to Canada when a young man. He practically spent his remaining
days in this city. He at first engaged in the dry-goods business,
which he followed for many years with good success. Eventually he
became a manufacturing tobacconist and again prosperity attended
his efforts in the commercial field. He also owned valuable
real estate, having taken advantage of early opportunities for
investment along that line. The soundness of his judgment and
the clearness of his vision were indicated in the rise in his
property values, making his holdings well worthy of consideration.

[Illustration: WILLIAM SMITH]

Mr. Smith was married in Montreal to Miss Margaret Watson,
daughter of George and Margaret (Selkirk) Watson of Montreal. He
continued to make the city his home until his life’s labors were
ended in death, when he had reached a venerable age. He was a
man respected by all and such was the regard entertained for his
opinions, that his advice was frequently sought upon important
questions. He was an attendant at Erskine church. Mr. Smith is
survived by his widow, who resides in what has been for years the
family residence, built by Mr. Smith at No. 56 Simpson Street and
which home stands on the site of the former home of Sir Alexander
Mackenzie, discoverer of the Mackenzie river and the first
European to cross the Rocky mountains.


JOSEPH ARTHUR BOURGAULT.

Joseph Arthur Bourgault is one of the most prominent figures in
real-estate circles in Montreal, his well defined and carefully
executed plans constituting a potent force in the substantial
development and improvement of various sections of the city.
He is yet a young man but has already attained a position that
many a one of twice his years might well envy. He was born May
30, 1887, at St. Louis de Bonsecours, Richelieu county, P. Q.,
his parents being Henri and Caroline (Loriviere) Bourgault, the
former a native of Ste. Victoire, Richelieu county, and the
latter of St. Judes in St. Hyacinthe county, P. Q.

Joseph Arthur Bourgault pursued his education in the schools
at Sorel, P. Q., and was graduated from St. Bernard College on
the 19th of June, 1905. He started in the business world as a
bookkeeper and afterward was traveling salesman, but eventually
turned his attention to the real-estate business, which he
conducts under the name of J. A. Bourgault & Company with offices
at No. 97 St. James Street in Montreal. His progress has been
continuous, and his efforts have been constantly of greater
public value, as he has developed and improved property which
hitherto had been an unsightly waste or had little commercial
value. In 1911 he developed and sold Montmorency Park including
eleven hundred lots which brought three hundred and seventy-five
thousand dollars; and in 1912 he sold a part of Niagara Garden
including thirty-two hundred lots, of which nineteen hundred
brought four hundred and twenty thousand dollars. He also sold
a subdivision on the south shore called Woodbine Park including
over eleven hundred lots. All this extensive property has been
sold exclusively by Mr. Bourgault. He is a wide-awake, alert,
enterprising young man thoroughly in touch with the real-estate
market. He knows what property is for sale, is conversant with
values and seems never to make a mistake in his investments. He
was graduated at the National Salesmen Training Association,
which has its headquarters in Chicago, and he is a member of the
Headquarters International Realty Company of that city.

On the 25th of November, 1912, in Montreal, Mr. Bourgault was
married to Miss Berthe Daignault, a daughter of the late J.
Daignault. They have gained many friends during the period
of their residence here. Mr. Bourgault has attractive social
qualities which render him popular socially and add not a little
to his success in the management and control of an extensive and
growing real-estate business.


DANIEL WILSON.

In Montreal stand many evidences of the ability and skill of
Daniel Wilson in a number of the larger and more substantial
buildings of the city, where for a long period he engaged in the
business of general contracting. He was born in Avoch, Scotland,
March 2, 1827, and was in the seventy-ninth year of his age when
he passed away. He had been a resident of Canada since 1853,
having come to the Dominion to take charge of stone quarries
at Pointe Claire for the construction of the Victoria bridge.
After the completion of the bridge he entered upon the work of
general contracting and erected many of the largest buildings of
Montreal, including the Royal Insurance building, Molson’s Bank,
the Merchants Bank, the Mutual Telegraph building, the Erskine
church, the Windsor Hotel, and others. He retired from business
about 1886, having met with notable success that brought him a
gratifying income.

Mr. Wilson was prominent in public affairs. For eight years
he represented St. Antoine ward in the city council and was
interested and active in support of various projects which have
had to do with the welfare and upbuilding of this city. He was
also Protestant school commissioner for a number of years and
aside from positions having to do with the public service he
was connected officially with various charitable and benevolent
projects. For six years he was on the board of the Outdoor Relief
and the Protestant Hospital for the Insane, was a life governor
of the General Hospital and a trustee of Mount Royal Cemetery
Association. He was also one of the oldest members and for eleven
years a deacon and twelve years elder of the Crescent Street
Presbyterian church and when other interests left him leisure
for sports, he enjoyed curling and became one of the founders of
the Caledonia Curling Club.

Mr. Wilson was married in Scotland to Miss Margaret Stephen,
who died in Montreal in 1856, being the mother of two children:
James, a resident of Montreal; and Margaret, the widow of Henry
Downs, of St. Paul, Minnesota. In Montreal, in 1858, Mr. Wilson
married Miss Catherine MacGregor, a daughter of Daniel MacGregor,
and to this union six children were born: Robert, a contractor
residing in Vancouver; Lillias Ann, who died in young girlhood;
Lillias Isabella, the wife of Peter C. Small, of Vancouver;
Christina, who married James Sutherland and died in Montreal in
1896; Kate, who is Mrs. William A. Coates, of Montreal; and John
William, a contractor of Montreal.

On the 14th of February, 1906, Daniel Wilson was called from this
life, leaving behind him a record of many good deeds undertaken
for the benefit of his fellowmen and consummated in following the
highest ideals of manhood and responsibility toward those with
whom and for whom he lived.


ARTHUR ECREMENT, B. A.

Arthur Ecrement, who for many years has figured prominently
in the public life of the province and is a well known
representative of the notarial profession, was born at St.
Gabriel de Brandon, on the 29th of June, 1879. Liberal
educational opportunities were accorded him and after attending
Montreal College and Laval University he entered upon public
life. In fact his activities have always been of a public or
semi-public character and his labors have been of far-reaching
and beneficial effect. For five years he was secretary to the
Hon. R. Dandurand, speaker of the senate, and he was also
secretary of the liberal organization of the district of
Montreal. He was first elected to the house of commons in 1908,
in the liberal interests, and his efforts as a member of that
body have been pursued with a singleness of purpose in the
interest of general progress and good government. He brings to
bear in the discharge of his duties executive ability, keen
insight into the situation and a loyalty to the public good that
is above question.


REV. FRANK CHARTERS.

One of the most popular and able ministers in the Anglican church
in eastern Canada is Rev. Frank Charters, who for the past
seventeen years has done earnest and zealous work as rector of
St. Simon’s church, Montreal. He is a man of force, experience
and capacity, high in his ideals, earnest in his purposes and
straightforward in his methods, and his labors have been potent
forces in the spread of the doctrines in which he believes and in
the promotion of the moral development of the community in which
he resides.

Dr. Charters was born in Montreal, March 16, 1865, and acquired
his preliminary education at Arnold school and Fettis College. He
afterward entered McGill University, from which he was graduated
with the class of 1888. In the same year he completed a course
in the Montreal Diocesan College, and in 1911 he was given the
honorary degree of D. C. L. from the University of Bishop’s
College in Lennoxville. He is a governor of the Montreal Diocesan
College and a member of the corporation of the University of
Bishop’s College. He was ordained deacon in the Anglican church
in 1888 and received full orders in the following year, going
immediately afterward to Iron Hill and West Brome, Quebec,
of which he became Incumbent. In 1896 he was transferred to
Montreal, and here since that time he has done earnest and
capable work as rector of St. Simon’s parish. This congregation
was organized in 1892 and the church building erected in the same
year by Dean Carmichael. Rev. Samuel Massey was first pastor and
officiated until the spring of 1896, Dr. Charters succeeding
him. The latter has proved a capable and efficient rector, fully
conscious of the obligations and responsibilities which devolve
upon him, and he has accomplished in the course of years a great
deal of consecrated work among his people, whose love he holds in
large measure. He is, moreover, a man of good business ability
and foresight, and the affairs of his parish have been ably
administered and the funds carefully conserved. Dr. Charters
has two hundred and seventy-five families under his charge and
manages a church property valued at fifty thousand dollars. He is
very popular among people of all denominations in Montreal and
his unostentatious life, filled with well directed and zealous
labor and characterized by earnest personal service, has brought
him the esteem and confidence of all who are associated with him.


JOHN T. WILSON.

The life record of John T. Wilson spanned sixty-four years. He
was born in Greenup, Scotland, February 9, 1841, and died in
Montreal on the 23d of February, 1905. His parents were John and
Mary (Thomson) Wilson, the former a sea captain. The youth of
John T. Wilson was marked by events and experiences such as come
to the lot of all. He reached a turning point on the journey of
life, however, when he bade adieu to friends and native country
and sailed for Canada. Settling in Montreal, in 1866, he became
one of the city’s foremost business men, his name being engraved
high on the roll of those who contributed most largely to the
commercial greatness and consequent prosperity of the city. He
was for forty years the senior member of the firm of Wilson,
Paterson & Company, importers and general manufacturers’ agents,
continuing in active business until his demise. The volume of
trade developed with the growth of the city and had its inception
in the progressive methods, initiative spirit and undaunted
enterprise of the partners.

When business hours were over and the cares of the day were put
aside, Mr. Wilson greatly enjoyed a game of golf or billiards.
His interest, too, reached out to many of those projects which
recognize the needs of the city and the claims of humanity. He
attended St. Paul’s Presbyterian church. For ten years he was a
member of the council of the Board of Trade and was ever keenly
alive to the projects instituted by that society for the benefit
and upbuilding of the city. He belonged to the Canadian and
St. James Clubs of Montreal, and the Hunt Club. His business
activity was evenly balanced with his honorable methods in trade;
his interest in club life and in manly outdoor sports giving him
the necessary rest and recreation from that line of work which
takes strong hold upon the emotions and calls forth the more
tender sentiment in nature. In a word, his was a well rounded
character and his place as a representative citizen of Montreal
none contest.


CHARLES BYRD.

Successful in business, Charles Byrd rejoiced in his prosperity
not so much because of the opportunities which came to him from
his wealth, but because it enabled him to again and again aid his
fellowmen. In this he was prompted by no sense of duty but by
a higher interest in humanity--a genuine regard for his fellow
travelers upon life’s journey. His hand was ever downreaching
to aid those who were struggling to raise and he shed around
him much of the sunshine of life not only through his material
assistance, but also through the words of encouragement and
inspiration which he spoke.

Mr. Byrd was born at Lachute, province of Quebec, March 4, 1848,
and was therefore sixty-three years of age when he passed away at
Nassau, Bahama Islands, on the 3d of March, 1911. He had been a
resident of Montreal from early manhood, embarking in the grocery
business upon his arrival here. This he abandoned to enter the
Munderloh firm in 1868, at which time its founder, William C.
Munderloh was in control. After the death of this gentleman
Mr. Byrd entered into partnership with Henry Munderloh, son of
William C. Munderloh, in the continuation of the business. In
1909 the firm was organized as a joint stock company and Mr.
Byrd had active voice in its control, assisting in formulating
plans which had to do with its substantial growth and progress.
It became one of the important enterprises of the kind in the
city and through his connection therewith Mr. Byrd won notable,
gratifying and enviable success.

Mr. Byrd was united in marriage in 1873 to Miss Kate Macdonald,
a daughter of the late Alexander Roy Macdonald of Montreal.
During the last years of his life Mr. Byrd was in poor health
and, accompanied by his wife, had spent two winters in the West
Indies. He went again in February, 1911, in order to escape the
rigors of the Canadian winter and there passed away on the 3d of
March.

His memory is enshrined in a halo of good deeds, for he was
continually active in support of organized charities or in
individual assistance. He gave liberally to a number of the
benevolent organizations of Montreal and served on the board
of management of the Protestant Hospital for the Insane at
Verdun to which he made a contribution of five thousand dollars.
He was also one of the board of managers of the Montreal
General Hospital to which he gave ten thousand dollars; was
vice president of the Protestant House of Industry and Refuge
at Longue Pointe, to which he gave ten thousand dollars; was
vice president of the Moore Home and an officer of the Irish
Protestant Benevolent Society, to which his contribution was
five thousand dollars. He gave twenty-five hundred dollars
to the Western General Hospital; two thousand dollars to the
Alexandra Hospital; two thousand to the Montreal Protestant
Orphan Asylum; five hundred dollars to the Boys’ Home; one
thousand dollars to St. Patrick’s Society, a goodly sum to the
Erskine church for home movements and a sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars for foreign movements. He was an elder of the
old St. Gabriel church on St. Catherine Street and afterward
joined the Erskine Presbyterian church when it was amalgamated
with the Chalmers church. A high-minded Christian gentleman,
the principles of his religion permeated his life in all of
its different connections and his contribution to the world’s
progress along moral and religious lines was a valuable one.

[Illustration: CHARLES BYRD]


DAVID MORRICE.

The life record of David Morrice might be summed up in the term
successful achievement. It has, however, been more than the
success that is calculated in the terms of dollars and cents,
for his outlook of life has ever been broad, his conceptions of
its opportunities accurate and his recognition of its duties
and obligations correct. He has as fully and carefully met the
last mentioned as he has his chances in a business way. While
he has passed the eighty-fourth milestone on life’s journey, in
spirit and interest he seems yet in his prime. To him might be
applied the words of Victor Hugo: “The snows of age are upon
his head, but the spring of youth is in his heart.” He was born
in St. Martin, Perthshire, Scotland, August 11, 1829, and after
acquiring his early education there, started in business life
as an employe in dry-goods stores, remaining for some time in
that connection in Dublin, Liverpool, Manchester and London.
The growing western country attracted him with its almost
limitless opportunities, and in 1863 he established himself in
Montreal where he founded the business that has since become
one of the most important commercial enterprises of the city.
Under the name of The D. Morrice Company the business is now
one of extensive proportions. Manufacturers’ agents and general
merchants, they have one of the largest and best appointed
establishments of the city, and Mr. Morrice is also at the head
of important productive industries and is said to be one of
the best authorities in cotton matters in the Dominion. He is
president of Penman’s Limited; of the Canadian Cottons, Ltd.; and
of the Montreal Investment & Freehold Company. He is likewise
a director of the Bank of Montreal; of the Dominion Textile
Company; and of the Mount Royal Cemetery Company. While he has
now in large measure retired from active management of these
interests, his opinions still carry weight in business councils,
and his judgment and discrimination are those of a man of not
more than three score years and ten. While conducting important
and extensive commercial and manufacturing interests, he has
found time to become a factor in the management and control of
many projects for the benefit of his fellowmen in the alleviation
of the hardships of life for the unfortunate. He is now vice
president of the Montreal Tubercular Association; president of
the Montreal General Hospital; president of the Montreal Sailors’
Institute; president of the Mackay Institute for the Deaf and
Dumb; and governor of the Montreal Boys’ Home. He has long been
an interested member of the Montreal Art Association of which he
is one of the councillors and he maintains an equal interest in
Christian education as chairman of the board of managers of the
Montreal Presbyterian College, in which position he has remained
for forty-two years. He has ever been a firm believer in the
early religious training of the young and has labored untiringly
to advance the interests of moral direction for the youth of the
land. In 1905 he was chosen vice president of the Quebec Sunday
School Union and in 1902 was president of the Presbyterian Sunday
School Association. In 1882 he erected the David Morrice Hall of
the Montreal Presbyterian College at a cost of ninety thousand
dollars. His gift to the Montreal General Hospital in 1906 made
that institution richer by twenty-five thousand dollars and in
1910 he gave ten thousand dollars to the Montreal Art Association.

On the 14th of June, 1860, Mr. Morrice married Anne S. Anderson
of Toronto, and of their children, William J. and David J., are
connected with The D. Morrice Company. The others are Robert B.,
who is connected with Penman’s Limited; Arthur A., a resident of
Toronto; James Wilson, a distinguished artist; and a daughter,
who is now the wife of Allen G. Law, of the firm of Law, Young
& Company of Montreal. The son, James Wilson Morrice, born in
Montreal in 1864, attended the city schools and the Toronto
University and afterward developed his art talent by study in
Paris. He has not only won high reputation in that city but also
in London and is considered one of the greatest painters of
Brittany coast scenes. He has been a frequent exhibitor at the
Paris Salon and one of his pictures has been purchased by the
French government and another by the Canadian government for the
National Art Gallery at Ottawa. He largely paints landscapes, yet
gives some attention to figures and in all of his work there is
an even balance maintained between technique, creative faculty
and poetic feeling.

Mr. David Morrice is now eighty-four years of age, but still
maintains deep and active interest in the church and in the
benevolent and civic projects with which he is identified.
Moreover, he still holds membership in the St. James Club, the
Montreal Club, the Mount Royal Club, the Montreal Hunt Club and
the Forest and Stream Club. Someone has said, “there is an old
age which need not suggest idleness or lack of occupation; on the
contrary there is an old age which grows stronger and better,
mentally and morally as the years advance and gives out of the
rich stores of its wisdom and experience for the benefit of
others.” Such is the record of David Morrice.


J. F. DUBREUIL.

One of the able advocates of Montreal and one who has filled
with honor various official positions, is J. F. Dubreuil, a
descendant of a distinguished family which has found mention
in Abbé Tanguay’s “Dictionnaire Généalogique.” In this book
L’Abbé Cyprien Tanguay mentions among the earliest ancestors
of the house of Dubreuil the following. Christopher Dubreuil,
born in 1696; Jean Du Breuil, born in 1655, a son of Pierre and
Catherine (Gosselin) Du Breuil, married September 28, 1682, at
Montreal; wife died December 22, 1685: one child; married August
6, 1686, Ste. Famille Marguerite Gaultier: seven children. Jean
Etienne Dubreuil was a notaire royal and a brother of the above
mentioned Jean. He married twice and had a family of many sons
and daughters.

J. F. Dubreuil was born at Lachine, province of Quebec, January
24, 1845, and is a son of Joseph and Hélène (Barré) Dubreuil,
the former of Pointe-aux-Trembles and the latter, of Montreal.
The father was for many years a notary public. J. F. Dubreuil
received his education at the Jesuit College of Montreal,
famed for its thorough teachers, and completed the course of
instruction by graduation on February 6, 1866. He subsequently
engaged as an advocate and as he was able, capable and
conscientious, soon enjoyed a profitable practice, his services
being demanded by a representative clientèle. He served from 1873
to 1882 as deputy clerk of the crown and peace, and from June,
1883, until June, 1889, as deputy sheriff of Montreal.

On January 26, 1869, at Sorel, Mr. Dubreuil was united in
marriage to Miss Marie L. C. Beaupré and they have the following
children: J. F. L., vice president of the Commercial Travelers
Association; George, who is employed in the registry office at
Hochelaga; Charles, of Richelieu, Ontario; and Raoul, who is with
the Canadian Electric Company.

In his political faith Mr. Dubreuil is a conservative, giving his
support to that organization. For many years he has made Montreal
his home and has witnessed the change from a comparatively small
city to that of a world’s metropolis, having participated in
bringing about the transformation according to the best of his
ability. He is deeply interested in the growth of the city along
material, as well as intellectual, lines and as he has always
lived a life of conscientious righteousness, is highly esteemed
and respected in the community where he is widely known.


JOHN RANKIN.

No worthy enterprise of Montreal sought in vain the assistance
of John Rankin, and his public spirit found expression in
tangible effort for the general good. At the same time he
conducted important business affairs as representative of large
corporate interests of his native land. He was born in Lanark,
Scotland, in 1825, and had traveled far on life’s journey when
death called him February 27, 1908. Coming to Canada in 1854,
he carried on business first under his own name and afterward
as senior partner in the firm of Rankin, Beattie & Company.
He also represented J. & P. Coates, the world renowned thread
manufacturers of Paisley, for many years, and was instrumental
in establishing for them a large Canadian business. He was
likewise financial agent for the house of Arthur & Company, of
Glasgow, and in the further development of his business interests
became one of the founders of the Shedden Company and of the
Guarantee Company of North America. As his worth and business
talent became recognized his cooperation was sought along many
lines and when keen business judgment prompted his investment
in any interest he was almost at once accorded voice in the
management. He became a promoter of the New York Daily Graphic,
the Consolidated Bank and of the Montreal & Sorel Railway, now
a part of the Delaware & Hudson system. As a business man, his
position was second to none and his record was one which any man
might be proud to possess. He never made engagements that he did
not keep, nor incurred obligations that he did not meet, and his
name became a recognized synonym of integrity and enterprise in
commercial and industrial circles. At River David, in 1861, Mr.
Rankin was married to Miss Louisa S. C. Wurtele, a daughter of
Jonathan Wurtele, in his life time, Seignor of River David. The
following children were born to Mr. and Mrs. Rankin: James L., a
contractor of Montreal; Archibald J., who resides in Edmonton,
Alberta, where he is a clerk in the government offices; John,
who is a civil engineer, residing at Victoria, British Columbia;
Norman S., who is connected with the Canadian Pacific Railway
at Calgary; Allan C., a bacteriologist in the employ of the
Siam government, at Bangkok; A. G. Ernest, who is a notary of
Montreal; Louisa M., who is Mrs. John Fair, of Montreal; and
Isobel S., at home.

None ever questioned Mr. Rankin’s interest in the city and the
general welfare of its people. He stood for all those things
which are a feature in civic betterment and his interest in
moral progress was evidenced in his membership in St. Paul’s
Presbyterian church, of which he was secretary and treasurer
when the present edifice was erected. He was also a governor
of the Montreal General Hospital. His high standing is further
indicated in the fact that his name was on the membership roll of
St. James Club. To him were accorded the “blest accompaniments of
age--honor, riches, troops of friends.”

The summer home of Mrs. Rankin is “Manor House,” Pointe Seche,
County Kamouraska, Quebec.


EMMANUEL PERSILLIER LACHAPELLE, M. D.

While Dr. Emmanuel Persillier Lachapelle has gained prominence
and won honor in various directions, perhaps the one act which
will longest stand as an enduring monument to his worth and work
will be the creation of the board of health of the province of
Quebec, of which he is now the president. His efforts were a
potent factor in bringing about the organization of this board,
the far-reaching effects of which are immeasurable. In this and
other connections he has entered upon a campaign of education for
the purpose of bringing to the public a knowledge of sanitary and
health conditions that will forever prevent widespread contagion
and check the ravages of disease even in individual cases. A man
of strong character and wide knowledge of men and things, his
life work has by no means reached its full fruition. In private
and hospital practice he has gained eminence and his name is
associated with one of the strongest and best equipped medical
schools of the country.

Dr. Lachapelle was born on the 21st of December, 1845, at
Sault au Récollet, Quebec, his parents being Pierre Persillier
and Marie Zoe (Toupin) Lachapelle, descendants of some of the
earliest settlers of New France. His father was born at Cote des
Neiges, in the county of Hochelaga, in the province of Quebec.
Making his home at Sault au Récollet he followed farming and was
proprietor of grain mills. His parents were Pascal Persillier
and Marie (Ladouceur) Lachapelle, who lived at Cote des Neiges.
The maternal grandparents of Dr. Lachapelle were Charles P. and
Angelique (Leduc) Toupin, of Montreal. The ancestors came to
this country in the early days of the French colony and were
married at Laprairie, near Montreal, on the south shore of the
St. Lawrence river.

[Illustration: DR. EMMANUEL P. LACHAPELLE]

After acquiring a classical education in the Montreal College
Dr. Lachapelle entered upon the study of medicine in the old
Montreal School of Medicine and Surgery and after a brilliant
course was admitted to practice in 1869. From the first years
of his professional life he devoted considerable attention to
the question of hygienic science. He continued his reading and
research after leaving college and is still as keen and devoted
a student as ever. He has long been ranked as a successful
practitioner of high standing in Montreal, especially prominent
in the field of hygiene.

In 1872 Dr. Lachapelle was appointed surgeon of the Sixty-fifth
Regiment, Mount Royal Rifles, and retained the appointment
until 1886. He was unable to accompany the regiment on active
service to the northwest in 1885, owing to the demands of his
professional engagements, but he personally superintended the
preparation of the medical equipment which the regiment took on
service and secured the services of an assistant surgeon, who
went with the regiment.

Dr. Lachapelle took a very active part in the refounding of
the medical legislation and in 1878 was elected a governor and
the treasurer of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of the
Province of Quebec, retaining an official connection with that
important body almost continuously since, while for nine years he
has held the position of president. At the time of the memorable
small-pox epidemic in Montreal in 1885-6, when hundreds of new
cases of the disease were reported daily, until the death rate
claimed ten thousand victims, and when the city was practically
placed in a state of quarantine in respect to the rest of the
continent, Dr. Lachapelle came to the front as an outspoken
and fearless advocate of the drastic measures adopted to check
the disease. The contagion was spreading so rapidly throughout
the country that it became necessary to take advantage of an
old statute law and to create a central board of health which
would apply throughout the province means for prevention and
cure. Such a course had previously been adopted in Montreal.
The moment the horror of the great pestilence was at an end Dr.
Lachapelle proceeded to organize the forces of medical science
for the conservation of the health of the people. He was chiefly
instrumental in getting the provincial government to pass a law
for the creation of a provincial board of health with powers
coterminus with provincial bounds. Prior to that time there was
only a local authority operating within restricted bounds. From
that time forward the body which Dr. Lachapelle may be said to
have created was to have jurisdiction over the whole province.
The beneficial results of this measure were soon seen in better
methods, improved sanitation and, above all, in the general
vaccination of the people who had been so terribly scourged
because of the lack of this preventative in 1885. For the most
important and valuable work which he did in this connection
Dr. Lachapelle received high encomiums from all sections of
the American continent and from foreign lands as well, not the
least flattering being the recognition of the French republic
in 1898 which conferred upon him the Order of the Legion of
Honor. With the establishment of the provincial board of health
he was appointed its president, a position which he has since
filled with credit to himself and great advantage to the entire
province.

Moreover the name of Dr. Lachapelle has been intimately
associated with the effort to improve medical legislation and
to raise the standard of medical education in Quebec. On the
establishment of a branch of Laval University in Montreal,
decided upon in 1878, and the inauguration of the medical faculty
in temporary class-rooms in the old Chateau du Ramezay, on Notre
Dame Street, he was one of the most ardent instigators and
supporters of the movement and contributed in a great measure
to its success. At the present time he holds the positions of
dean of the medical faculty at the university and of professor
of hygiene; from 1876 until 1894 he was proprietor and editor
of L’Union Médicale. In 1885 he had the honor of presiding as
president over the convention of the American Public Health
Association. He had the honor of being elected an associate
member of the Société Française d’Hygiène of Paris. He has been
closely and prominently associated with the Notre Dame Hospital
ever since its establishment and can almost be called its
founder. The splendid institution which owes its establishment
partly to the clinical requirements of the then recently founded
medical faculty of Laval was incorporated in 1880, Dr. Lachapelle
being a member of the board of governors and holding the position
of general superintendent until 1906, while to the present time
he is president of the hospital.

A stanch member of the liberal party, Dr. Lachapelle has often
been urged to become a candidate in nomination for political
preferment but although willing to use his influence for the
benefit of his party he has invariably declined to accept a
nomination because of a sense of duty toward his professional
interests and benevolent engagements. In 1902 he was urged by
many of the most influential citizens of Montreal, both French
and English, irrespective of party to accept nomination for the
mayoralty. He did accept provisionally but later withdrew to
avoid racial complications. When the city government was changed
about three years ago it was deemed fitting that one so eminent
as an authority on sanitation and hygiene and one so dignified
and high-minded as a foremost citizen should be a member of the
new board which was henceforth to administer the affairs of
the city. The Doctor has little inclination for publicity but
yielded to the appeals addressed to him and became controller of
Montreal. He has made a most admirable official, the value of his
service being widely recognized. It is his desire to accomplish
the best possible measures of reform during his term of office,
and his efforts have already been productive of great good. He
was elected in 1910 for a term of four years.

Aside from his professional and public activities previously
mentioned Dr. Lachapelle is also a director of the Credit Foncier
Franco-Canadien and of other financial institutions and life
insurance companies. He has been identified with various national
and benevolent movements and in 1876 had the honor of serving
as general president of the St. Jean Baptiste Society. He is
also a member of the British Medical Association, the Canadian
Medical Association, the American Public Health Association,
Société Médicale de Montreal, the Medico-Chirurgical Society of
Montreal, the Royal Edward Institute of Montreal and the Canadian
Anti-Tuberculosis League. He has been attending physician to
the Hôtel-Dieu and other institutions, and served as a delegate
from the Canadian government to the second Pan-American Medical
Congress held in Mexico in 1896, and to other similar bodies. He
has been a frequent contributor to medical literature, writing
largely for the Union Médicale du Canada and other periodicals.
He is a councillor of the University Club and a member of the
metropolitan parks commission. In religious faith he is a Roman
Catholic and in political belief a liberal. He belongs to the
Mount Royal, University and Montreal Jockey Clubs. By reason of
notable ability he has attained to a position of prominence and
power and has been termed “a second Laurier.” Were his ambitions
along political lines he would undoubtedly attain distinction
in that field. He prefers, however, the even broader field of
professional activity wherein his scientific investigation and
research combined with practical knowledge and skill have gained
him eminence and made his life work of signal serviceableness to
mankind.


BERNARD MELANCON.

Bernard Melancon, a notary public who has engaged in the practice
of his profession for more than four years in Montreal, was born
at St. Jacques l’Achigan on the 20th of August, 1881, a son of
Moise and Elodie (Gaudet) Melancon, the former a zouave who
participated in active military duty in 1869-70. The son attended
College Ste. Marie, a Jesuit school, and Laval University of
Montreal. He prepared for the notarial profession, becoming a
notary on the 16th of July, 1909, after which he was associated
with M. M. Loranger under the firm name of Loranger & Melancon.
Subsequently he became a member of the firm of Mayrand, Loranger,
Ecrement & Melancon, but now practices as a member of the firm
Loranger, Seguin & Melancon, with offices at No. 99 St. James
Street, Montreal. He is conducting a successful business and
stands well in the profession, possessing the comprehensive
knowledge so necessary to success as well as the energy and
ability which must precede progress in any profession or business
line.

Mr. Melancon is a nationalist in political faith and allegiance
and in religious belief is a Roman Catholic. He was married at
Montreal on the 18th of June, 1912, to Miss Annette Jodian, a
daughter of L. O. Jodian, who died on the 17th of May, 1913. Mr.
Melancon is yet a young man, but has already made progress that
many an older member of the profession might well envy, and his
past record gives indications of future advancement.


GABRIEL HURTUBISE.

The earliest record of the Hurtubise family leads back to one
Louis Heurtebise (the spelling having been changed later), who
was born in 1667 and married on May 3, 1688, at Montreal, Jeanne
Gatteau and died on January 24, 1703. The present generation of
this old and distinguished French-Canadian family is represented
by Gabriel Hurtubise, a civil engineer and land surveyor, who
is independently established in business under the firm name
of Hurtubise & Hurtubise, his brother Louis being his partner.
He was born on November 3, 1883, in the city of Montreal, and
is a son of Edwin and Emélie (Brault) Hurtubise, both of whom
have passed away. The father was prominent in insurance circles
in Montreal as a member of the firm of Hurtubise & St. Cyr,
representatives of the Royal Insurance Company, and died on the
30th of December, 1913, in Montreal.

Gabriel Hurtubise enjoyed advantageous educational facilities at
St. Mary’s College, pursuing his more professional studies at the
Polytechnic School of Laval University, from which he graduated
on June 14, 1907, as civil engineer, and on June 10, 1909, as
land surveyor. He has since been prominently engaged in this
line in Montreal, having had charge of most important contracts.
He began his career under F. C. Laberge, C. E. and Q. L. S., of
Montreal. At present he is a member of the firm of Hurtubise &
Hurtubise, who are doing an extensive and profitable business.

On May 30, 1911, at Montreal, Mr. Hurtubise was united in
marriage to Miss Yvette Brault, a daughter of H. A. A. Brault,
a well known notary of this city. In his political views Mr.
Hurtubise is independent, preferring to entirely follow his
judgment in support of candidates. His religious faith is that of
the Catholic church. Fraternally he is a member of La Fontaine
Council of the Knights of Columbus. Yet a young man, Gabriel
Hurtubise has already made his mark in the world and has taken
his place in business circles of Montreal. Ambition has been the
beacon light of his life and his career again is proof of the
fact that ambition, coupled with industry and energy, will lead
to success.


GEORGE BROWNING CRAMP, K. C.

George Browning Cramp was for many years a veteran member of
the Montreal bar and a distinguished representative of the
profession, his opinions being largely accepted as authority
on questions of real-estate law, in which department of
jurisprudence he specialized. He was born in England in 1833,
a son of Rev. J. M. Cramp, who came to Montreal to accept a
position at the Baptist College. For years he was at the head of
Acadia University in Nova Scotia and was one of the prominent
educators in the maritime provinces.

In the schools of England and of Nova Scotia George B. Cramp
pursued his education and qualified for the bar as a student in
the law office of J. J. Day, K. C., an eminent member of the bar.
Thorough and careful preliminary training resulted in his being
called to the bar about 1855 and he entered upon active practice
in connection with his former preceptor. The latter had been
called to the bar in 1837 and was one of the most distinguished
lawyers of Montreal at an early day. Following his retirement,
Mr. Cramp entered upon active professional association with A.
F. Lunn, K. C., under the style of Lunn & Cramp, a connection
that was continued until the death of Mr. Lunn in 1894. Four
years later, or in 1898, Mr. Cramp was joined by J. Armitage
Ewing, K. C., under the style of Cramp & Ewing, and two years
later they admitted George S. McFadden, at which time the firm
name was changed to Cramp, Ewing & McFadden. This relation was
maintained until the death of the senior partner, who was then
in his eightieth year. While well versed in the various
departments of the law, he specialized in the field of real
estate and became an expert on legal questions relative thereto.
He was regarded as an expert in the matter of titles. He was
retained in a consulting capacity by such corporations as McGill
University, Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Company, the
Montreal Loan & Mortgage Company, and the White Star Dominion
Line. He remained throughout his entire professional career an
active and discriminating student of law, constantly broadening
his knowledge by reading and investigation, as well as experience.

[Illustration: GEORGE B. CRAMP]

Mr. Cramp held membership in the Mount Royal Club and the St.
James Club and was a casual attendant of the Olivet Baptist
church. For many years Mr. Cramp spent the summer season at
Saratoga, New York, or at Lachine, while his city residence was
at No. 62 McTavish Street, where his sister, the last survivor
of the family, now resides. He passed away February 16, 1913, at
the age of eighty years, leaving behind him the record of a well
spent life, in which he had wisely employed his time and talents.


THOMAS PRINGLE.

High on the list of mechanical and hydraulic engineers appears
the name of Thomas Pringle. Scientific study, investigation and
experience brought him to the enviable position which he long
occupied, making his word authority upon many problems relating
to the profession. He was born in Huntingdon, province of Quebec,
in 1830, and died in Montreal on the 7th day of May, 1911. His
father, David Pringle, was a farmer of Huntingdon and it was
there that the son was reared and educated, but in 1850, when a
young man of twenty years, he engaged in business in Montreal as
a milling engineer and for many years was prominently connected
with many water power developments and mill building operations
throughout Canada. Every phase of the milling business seemed
familiar to him and each forward step that he made seemed to
bring him a wider outlook and broader opportunities. He later
interested himself in the Montgomery Cotton Mills, the Hochelaga
and St. Ann’s Mills, of the Dominion Cotton Company, and the
Magog Print Mills, owned by the same corporation. His connection
with all these different important projects constituted him a
forceful factor in the industrial development of the country. He
was thus associated with many of the chief productive industries
of Canada and beyond this he became one of the foremost
consulting engineers. It was in the ‘60s that his attention
was first attracted to the water power possibilities of the
Lachine Rapids, which were subsequently utilized by the Lachine
Rapids Hydraulic & Land Company. At that early date, now more
than half a century ago, he made preliminary plans and wrote a
report upon the feasibility of the development in the interests
of Hugh Fraser, founder of the Fraser Institute. Mr. Pringle
predicted then that the water power would some day be used and
he lived to see the day when the prediction was fulfilled. In
1891 he was again asked to report on this power in the interest
of the Royal Electric Company, and the following year was asked
to report on the Chambly water power for the same concern. In
1892 his eldest son was admitted to the business under the firm
style of T. Pringle & Son, hydraulic engineers, and during the
succeeding three years close observations were made and much data
accumulated concerning the water power resources of the country,
the firm being regarded as authority upon many questions relative
thereto.

Mr. Pringle retired from the firm in 1898 but the business has
since been continued by his son under the same name. His services
were greatly sought, owing to his sound judgment, his scientific
attainments, his keen insight, and his practical experience.
He was considered the soul of honor and none ever questioned
his integrity. He assisted many men to gain a start in life and
many others were benefited by his powers of perception and keen
insight. His services were in constant demand as an arbitrator
when insurance companies were concerned in milling matters. John
McDougall took delight in giving him credit for the creation
of the large McDougall fortune and others acknowledged their
indebtedness to him in a similar way. As a natural mathematician
he perhaps had no superior in all Canada and he was regarded as
one of the most distinguished members of the Canadian Society of
Civil Engineers.

In 1861 Mr. Pringle was united in marriage to Miss Catherine
Ross, a daughter of Alexander and Isabella (Lang) Ross, of
Chateauquay Basin. The mother, who came from Scotland in 1832,
made her home at Chateauquay Basin, until death called her at
the notable old age of ninety-seven years. Alexander Ross was a
builder and assisted in the construction of the locks at Lachine
Canal but his death occurred when he was yet a young man. Mr. and
Mrs. Pringle had two sons: David Alexander, a mechanical engineer
of Montreal; and R. E. T. Pringle, of Toronto, an electrical
engineer.


ANDREW JOSEPH DAWES.

One of Montreal’s foremost business men, whose prominent
identification with the financial and industrial life of this
city has made him an important factor in business circles, is
Andrew J. Dawes, president of the National Breweries, Ltd.,
and also president of Dawes & Company, Ltd. The latter is the
oldest established industrial institution in the Dominion, and
was founded more than a century ago by Thomas A. Dawes, the
grandfather of Andrew J. Dawes, who was the first of the family
to leave England and settle in Canada.

Thomas A. Dawes was first connected with the brewery at River
St. Pierre. Ambitious to engage in business on his own account,
he established the Dawes Brewery in 1811, placed it upon a
substantial and profitable basis and was later joined in its
management by his sons, Thomas A. and James P., who were admitted
to a partnership in the business. When James P. Dawes passed
away in 1878 his share in the business passed to his two sons,
James P. Dawes, Jr., and Andrew J. Dawes, who then became
associated with their uncle, Thomas A. Dawes, in continuing the
business which developed steadily until it became one of the most
extensive enterprises of its kind in the Dominion.

Thomas Dawes, Jr., son of Thomas Dawes, the founder of the
family in Canada, was familiarly and affectionately styled Tom
throughout Lachine and wherever he was known. He there resided
for nearly eighty years and it was said that such was the
regularity of his habits that one could tell the time of day
by his actions. He always took the same train into town each
morning and the same walk in the evening and visited the bank at
the same hour each day. His life was to the utmost methodical
and systematic, and he was modest in demeanor and of retiring
disposition. He occupied a beautiful home on the river bank of
Lachine with his maiden sister. There he passed away on the 14th
of May, 1908, when he was in the seventy-ninth year of his age,
his birth having occurred in Lachine on the 19th of September,
1829.

James P. Dawes, Sr., another son of Thomas Dawes, the founder of
the family in Canada, married a Miss Leishman, who died in 1856,
leaving three sons, James P., Andrew J. and Thomas A. James P.
Dawes, Sr., was prominently identified with the business during
his active life, and contributed his part towards its progress
and expansion. He died in 1878. His son, Andrew Joseph Dawes is
now at the head of the mammoth business, which had its inception
in the brain of his grandfather and took on material form
through his efforts, and grew and developed through the labor of
representatives of the family in intermediate generations to the
present.

To accumulate a fortune requires one kind of genius; to retain
a fortune already acquired, to add to its legitimate increment
and to make such use of it that its possessor may derive
therefrom the greatest enjoyment and the public the greatest
benefit, requires another kind of genius. Mr. Dawes belongs
to that generation of business men called upon to shoulder
responsibilities differing materially from those that rested upon
their predecessors. In a broader field of enterprise they find
themselves obliged to deal with affairs of greater magnitude and
to solve more difficult and complicated financial and economic
problems. Such is the position in which Andrew J. Dawes found
himself and he has proven at all times equal to the occasion and
the demands made upon him.

Born in Lachine, June 15, 1846, he received his education in
that town, and also in Montreal. His business career began early
in connection with the interests of his father and on the death
of that parent he assumed additional responsibilities in the
business, which have been continued to the present time. Mr.
Dawes has been a prominent factor in the development of the
business. With its gradual growth facilities were increased, new
buildings were added and the plant has thus expanded until it
is represented by immense blocks of buildings, covering several
acres on each side of the main street in Lachine. Aside from his
extensive interests in the brewery business, Andrew J. Dawes is
prominently identified with various projects and organizations
for the development and improvement of the province along
horticultural and agricultural lines, being especially interested
in the subject of fruit growing.

He is a director of the Montreal Horticultural and Fruit Growing
Association; is president of the Council of Agriculture of the
Province of Canada, and at one time was president of the Lachine
Horticultural Association. He is a director of the Merchants Bank
and holds the same official position in regard to the London
and Lancashire Fire Insurance Company, Ltd. He is well known in
social and club circles and was president of the Auto Club of
Canada from 1903 to 1906, while his membership relations extend
to the Mount Royal, St. James, Forest and Stream, Royal Montreal
Golf, Royal St. Lawrence Yacht, Montreal Hunt, Auto and Aero,
Montreal Jockey, Montreal Polo, and St. George Snow Shoe Clubs
and to the Rideau Club of Ottawa.

Mr. Dawes married Miss Mary O. A. Wilgress, of Lachine, and
they have two daughters: Rachel M., the wife of F. L. Bond, of
Montreal; and Frances H., the wife of B. Hazen Porteous, of
Montreal.

A man of unusual energy whose exceptionally well preserved
physical condition enables him to display a capacity for business
more becoming to one twenty years his junior, success has made
possible for Mr. Dawes the enjoyment of many social pleasures and
interests. Yet prominent club man, that he is, Mr. Dawes’ first
interest is the extensive business of which he is the controlling
head and he is everywhere recognized as a forceful, resourceful
man, ready to meet any emergency and ever looking beyond the
exigencies of the moment to the opportunities and possibilities
of the future.


T. STERRY HUNT, LL. D., F. R. S.

It is a trite saying that there is always room at the top, for
while the lower ranks of life are crowded, comparatively few
have the ambition and the energy to climb to the heights in
connection with business or professional interests. Recognizing
and utilizing his opportunities and wisely employing his time
and talents, T. Sterry Hunt became recognized as one of the
eminent Canadian scientists, his ability winning for him the
unusual honor of being made a fellow of the Royal Society of
London. He was born in Norwich, Connecticut, September 5, 1826,
a representative of an old New England family. It was his
parents’ desire that he should become a representative of the
medical profession, but a strong inclination toward the study of
chemistry, mineralogy and geology prevented him from becoming
a physician. In 1845 he pursued his studies under Professor
Benjamin Silliman of Yale University and later became his
assistant. His constantly expanding powers marked him a man above
the ordinary and distinguished honors came to him as the years
passed. As early as 1846 the result of his original research
work was published in an article which he wrote for the American
Journal of Science. When the Geological Survey of Canada, then
recently organized by Mr. (later Sir) William E. Logan, required
the service of a competent chemist and mineralogist, Mr. Logan
applied to Professor Silliman to supply the man and Mr. Hunt
was recommended for the position, which he accepted early in
1847. His connection with the survey continued until 1872, when,
much against the wish of the government, he resigned. His work
embraced a large amount of field geology. The most difficult
problems presented by the geological formation of Canada are
those of its crystalline rocks. To this study Mr. Hunt addressed
himself from the beginning and made the first clear exposition
ever presented of the earlier rocks of the country. He afterward
gave the names of Laurentian and Huronian to these rocks and in
his investigations, analyses and scientific research laid the
foundation of what he regarded as his life work. He also gave
constant attention to the economic and practical departments
of the survey and was the first to make known the deposits of
phosphate of lime in Canada and call attention to its commercial
value for fertilizing purposes, collecting and sending
specimens of the same to the foreign exhibits of 1851, 1855 and
1867. He analyzed soils, investigated the petroleums of Canada
and their distribution, and his studies of the mineral waters of
the Dominion were the first and most complete ever made. His work
in many respects constituted the foundation, basis and stimulus
of all later investigation.

[Illustration: T. STERRY HUNT]

During his connection with the survey work Mr. Hunt took part
in the great exhibitions of 1856 and 1867, acting as judge at
both, while his services in a similar connection were sought at
the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876. His fame was
world-wide as the result of his investigations and researches
were made known, for he took the lead in much pioneer geological
work on the North American continent.

From 1856 until 1862 Dr. Hunt was professor of chemistry at Laval
University in Quebec and was continued as one of its honorary
professors until his death. His annual course of instruction
there comprised forty lectures in the French language and for
some years he was also lecturer at McGill University. In 1872
he accepted the chair of geology in the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Boston, there remaining until 1878, when he
resigned in order to concentrate his efforts upon further study
and professional work. His scientific attainments have gained
him recognition both on the American and European continents.
Harvard University created him Master of Arts in 1852 and from
Laval and McGill Universities he received the degree of Doctor
of Science. In 1881 he had the unusual honor of receiving the
degree of Doctor of Laws from Cambridge University of England,
and in special recognition of his eminence as a geologist he
was created a fellow of the Royal Society of London in 1859. In
1874 he was elected to membership in the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States and in 1882 he was one of those
called upon by the Marquis of Lorne to aid in the organization
of the New Royal Society of Canada, becoming that year chief of
the section of physical and mathematical sciences. In 1884 he was
elected its president. Thus year after year honors were conferred
upon him--honors well merited yet worn with becoming modesty.
He was one of the founders of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science at Philadelphia and in 1870 was elected
to its presidency. He was also an early member of the American
Institute of Mining Engineers and was its president in 1877,
while in 1880 he became the founder and president of the American
Chemical Society. Among the decorations conferred upon him was
that of the Legion of Honor, bestowed by Napoleon III, and the
cross of St. Mauritius and St. Lazarus from the king of Italy.
He contributed much to scientific literature and was a well
known lecturer on scientific subjects. He frequently went abroad
for study, spending much time in that way in Great Britain,
Switzerland and Italy. A chemical green ink which he invented in
1859 was the cause of giving the name of greenbacks to American
currency. His explorations on the American continent had extended
from the Gulf of St. Lawrence southward to the Gulf of Mexico and
westward to the Pacific.

In January, 1878, Dr. Hunt was married to Miss Anna Rebecca Gale,
the eldest daughter of Justice Samuel Gale of Montreal, who was
judge of the court of queen’s bench for Lower Canada. His wife
was Mary M. Hawley, who was born in Montreal and was educated in
this city and abroad. One of their daughters became the Baroness
von Friesen, of Dresden. After the death of the father in 1865,
Mrs. Hunt traveled extensively in Europe in company with her
two sisters. She is the author of one or two volumes of poems
of considerable merit, so that her name, like her husband’s, is
known in literary circles. Dr. Hunt passed away in February,
1892. His contribution to the world’s work was a valuable one.
His investigation, research and native intelligence constituted
the key which unlocked for us many of the portals beyond which
lay nature’s mysteries. The earth and its construction were
largely to him an open book and he made it a readable volume for
others, placing his investigations before mankind in a way that
has constituted the foundation for further research.


LIEUTENANT COLONEL FREDERICK WILLIAM HIBBARD.

Lieutenant Colonel Frederick William Hibbard has been frequently
before the public as a speaker and writer upon topics of
public interest. Although never a candidate he was for years
a participant in both federal and provincial politics and has
appeared on numerous public occasions both in the province of
Quebec and in that of Ontario. He is the senior member of the
firm of Hibbard, Boyer & Gosselin, and a successful member
of the Montreal bar. Ireland claims him as a native son, his
birth having occurred in Dublin on the 19th of October, 1865.
His father was the late Lieutenant Colonel Ashley Hibbard, of
Montreal, and his mother was Sarah Ann Hibbard, the second
daughter of the Rev. Ambrose Lane, M. A., perpetual curate of St.
Thomas, Pendleton, Manchester, England.

After spending some years under private instruction, Lieutenant
Colonel F. W. Hibbard entered McGill University, where he took
his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1886. After a couple of years
spent in teaching he returned to the university for the study of
law, graduating as B. C. L. in 1891. In addition to the degree
of B. C. L. received in that year he was also gold medallist.
In 1892 he received the degree of M. A. He began practice as a
barrister in 1893 and was created king’s counsel in 1907. His
advancement at the bar has been continuous and long since he
left the ranks of the many to stand among the successful few.
From 1907 until 1910 he was crown prosecutor for the district
of Montreal, and his clientele of a private character has been
extensive and important. In literary circles he is known and
has given papers and addresses upon a number of subjects. In
1903 he was president of the St. James Literary Society of
Montreal. His popularity as a lecturer is based both upon the
entertaining and the instructive nature of his discourses. He
has addressed various audiences upon the following comprehensive
subjects:--Canadian Constitutional Government, The Land Defence
of Canada, The Value of Organized Effort in Municipal Affairs,
The Prophecy of the West, and Canadians at Home and Abroad. He
is not merely a theorist, for his ideas have many times taken
practical, tangible form, and in 1910 his fitness for the
position led to his appointment to the presidency of the Quebec
public utilities commission. In military circles his name is
known, for he holds a first class certificate from the Royal
School of Artillery, and in 1894 joined the Second Regiment
Canadian Artillery as a lieutenant. He was advanced to the rank
of captain in 1895, major in 1897, lieutenant colonel in command
in 1901 and R. O. in 1906. He was one of the artillery officers
of the Second Canadian Contingent at Queen Victoria’s Jubilee,
received the Diamond Jubilee medal from the hand of King Edward,
and was presented to the late Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle.
In 1900 he was elected to the presidency of the Montreal Military
Institute and in 1905 became vice president of the Dominion
Artillery Association.

Lieutenant Colonel Hibbard was married in November, 1898, to Miss
Emily Laura Baker, the third daughter of Joseph S. Baker, of
Dunham, P. Q. He finds recreation in golf and has been president
of the Outremont Golf Club. He is a member of the St. James and
University Clubs and the Quebec Garrison Club. A liberal in
politics, he has been active in support of the principles of his
party, recognizing the duties and obligations as well as the
privileges of citizenship. In religious belief is an Anglican,
having twice served as warden of his church, is a member of
the synod of Montreal and of the executive committee of the
diocese. Mr. D. A. Lafortune, his colleague as crown prosecutor,
has characterized him as “a man of dignity and learning.”
His lifelong habit of study and investigation, his deep and
continuous interest in important public questions, and his
earnest purpose, prompting him to action in behalf of the public
welfare, have made him a citizen of value in advancing progress
and working toward that better ordering of things which is always
the goal of progress.


J. ADELARD OUIMET.

Among the better known advocates of Montreal is J. Adélard
Ouimet, who is a member of the firm of Ouimet & Guertin. He
is one of the most successful men in his line, and by his
career carries forward the tradition of the family which to a
large extent has been connected with the legal fraternity. The
grandfather, Michel Ouimet, was justice of the peace of St. Rose,
in the county of Laval, and also took an active part in the
insurrection of 1837. The father of J. Adélard Ouimet was Landré
Ouimet, and his wife was in her maidenhood Miss Euphémie Bourqué.
A brother of our subject, also named Landré Ouimet, was for ten
years an alderman for St. Jean Baptiste ward and an uncle on the
paternal side was judge of the court of appeals and president of
the City and District Savings Bank.

J. Adélard Ouimet was born at Ste. Scholastique, in the county
of Two Mountains, on the 7th of March, 1868. He pursued his
classical studies in the Seminary of Ste. Thérèse and at the
University of Ottawa and his law course at Laval University,
being admitted to the bar in 1895. He then became a partner of
the well known legal firm of Ouimet, Emard, Maurault & Ouimet,
but after the appointment of the Hon. J. A. Ouimet, his uncle,
to the judgeship of the court of appeals he entered into
partnership with A. Délisle, Q. C., then a member of parliament
for Portneuf county, but two years later decided to engage in
practice independently. In May, 1913, he formed a partnership
with C. A. Guertin, Q. C., under the firm name of Ouimet &
Guertin. He possesses every quality of which a lawyer may be
proud--skill in the presentation of his evidence, marked ability
in cross-examination, persuasiveness before the jury, a strong
grasp of every feature of the case, the ability to secure a
favorable ruling from the judge, unusual familiarity with human
nature and the springs of human conduct and, last but not least,
untiring energy. He has often occasion to demonstrate his ability
and has handled many important cases since his admission to the
bar, his clientele being of the most representative character. He
is dignified and impressive, deliberate in manner, his speeches
always commanding attention. Entirely free from ostentation
and display, he largely relies upon the simple weight of his
character and is ever prepared to meet any attack of the opposing
counsel, as his mind works with a rapidity which often excites
the wonder and admiration of his colleagues.

On the 3d of September, 1901, Mr. Ouimet was united in marriage
in Montreal to Miss Dersina Vaillancourt, a daughter of Benjamin
Vaillancourt, a well known grain merchant of Montreal, and they
have one son, George Etienne. As is but natural, Mr. Ouimet
has taken a conspicuous part in the public life of his city
and province, having participated in all elections since 1890,
not only in the province of Quebec but also in Ontario. He
is a conservative in his political affiliations and stanchly
upholds the principles of his party. He was the founder and
first president of Le Club Morin, holding the executive office
during 1893 and 1894. From 1894 to 1896 he was also president of
Le Club des Jeunes Conservateurs and is an active member of Le
Club Cartier, of which he served as treasurer from 1910 to 1912.
He is also a military man. After having been in the Sixty-fifth
Regiment for ten years, he then joined the Eighty-fifth Regiment,
becoming captain in 1900. He will be major of that regiment in
1914. Fraternally he is chief ranger of the Catholic Order of
Foresters and is a member of the Royal Guardians and of the
Catholic Foresters Club. His religious faith is that of the Roman
Catholic church, to the work of which he gives his moral and
material support. At the Ottawa University he was the founder
of La Société des Débats Canadien Français in 1889 and served
as its first president. In 1908 he was also elected president
of L’Association St. Jean Baptiste of St. Jean Baptiste parish.
Mr. Ouimet is a successful lawyer in the truest sense of the
word, a man unusually broad-minded and intelligent, tolerant and
of wide experience, never mercenary or grasping, believing in
something greater than mere material wealth, who in the course of
a distinguished career, spent simply and unostentatiously, has
been a factor for good along various lines. His public-spirited
citizenship has been a boon to Montreal, who proudly claims him
as one of her citizens, and Mr. Ouimet returns the honor which
the city’s people entertain for him by a loyalty which could not
be more devoted.


CHARLES FRANCIS SMITH.

Charles Francis Smith, for half a century a leading figure in
the business and social life of Montreal, was born in Aylesford,
Hampshire, England, in 1841. He had reached the psalmist’s
allotted span of three score years and ten when death called
him in Montreal on the 30th of September, 1911. His position
was one which gained for him not only the respect but also the
admiration and love of his associates. Important and extensive as
were his business enterprises, they constituted but one phase
of an existence that was largely devoted to charitable works and
civic affairs and he was no less esteemed for his generosity and
unfailing kindness than he was admired for his business acumen.
His residence in Canada covered a period of forty-eight years. He
came to this country as a member of the standing army. The shed
in which he and his fellow soldiers slept the first night after
landing at St. Andrews, New Brunswick, is still standing near
the beautiful summer home which he afterward built for himself
there. His entrance into commercial circles in Montreal was made
as proprietor of a shoe store on St. Mary Street. He afterward
entered into partnership with the late James McCready and upon
the latter’s death became sole proprietor of the business and
so remained for almost one-third of a century; yet in order to
give his employes the opportunity of sharing in the profits of
the business he formed a limited company nine years prior to
his demise. In April, 1911, the business was sold to D. Lorne
McGibbon, although Mr. Smith retained an interest in the new
company,--the Ames, Holden, McCready, Limited,--of which he
became a director.

[Illustration: CHARLES F. SMITH]

Public affairs as well as private interests profited by the
efforts, the sound judgment and keen discrimination of Mr.
Smith. He was at one time alderman of Montreal; was a member of
the finance committee and was again and again urged to become a
candidate for the mayoralty. Native modesty, however, caused him
to remain in private life even when it was almost a certainty
that he would be elected to any office to which he might aspire.
He was the only English member of the French Commercial School
which was established by the Gouin government, and he belonged to
the Board of Trade for five or six years, being first a member of
the council and rising through the offices of treasurer and vice
president to that of president, being elected by acclamation.
He was also a vice president of the Dominion Express Company;
managing director of the Laurentide Pulp Company; a director of
the Merchants Bank; a director of the Montreal Trust Company; a
director of the Dominion Textile Company; was at one time the
president of the Western Hospital, and had been for years one of
the governors of both the Notre Dame and General Hospitals, and
vice president of the Royal Alexandra. He was a well known figure
in the city’s fashionable clubs, belonging to the Mount Royal and
St. James Clubs, the Royal Montreal Golf Club, the Forest and
Stream Club and the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club. He was also a
charter member of Canada Council of the Knights of Columbus; a
prominent parishioner of St. Patrick’s church, as well as warden
of the same; a director of St. Patrick’s Orphan Asylum, and
president of the Catholic Sailors’ Club. He was also a well known
member of St. George’s Society.

His kindness of heart was invariable, he was especially devoted
to his home and shunned ostentation. At St. Andrews where he
spent every summer, one of his greatest pleasures consisted in
the companionship of those friends of his who lived near him,
of whom Sir Thomas Shaughnessy was among the number. Taking
a great interest in matters pertaining to education, he was
one of the founders of the Catholic high school, and a member
of the administration of Laval University, and though, well
known in life as a conservative in politics, he was appointed
by Hon. Lomer Gouin as governor of L’Ecole des Hautes Etudes
Commerciales. Besides being a practical manufacturer, Mr. Smith
gave special attention to tariff matters, and his contributions
to the campaign against unrestricted reciprocity in 1891,
when Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Mr. Erastus Wiman and their friends
endeavored to establish free trade between Canada and the United
States, did more than a little to secure the protectionist
victory of that year.

For years Mr. Smith did not actively participate in civic
affairs, but in 1890, when a reform wave was sweeping over the
commercial metropolis he was asked to come forward as a candidate
in one of the civic divisions. He hesitated for some time, but
finally consented to contest the west ward if his warm personal
friend, the late Mr. Frank Hart, would also seek a seat in the
city council. At that time the late Colonel Stevenson was a
landmark in civic politics as well as in military and social
circles, and so well was the colonel known that there were many
who considered that with him as an opponent Mr. Smith had hardly
a fighting chance. It was contended that a Roman Catholic could
not be elected in such a pronounced Protestant district as the
west ward, but the success achieved by Mr. Smith in that contest
proved that the reform candidate’s reputation was too well
established to leave him a victim of the religious cry. He served
in the council during 1890 and 1891, on the finance committee,
and though assured that he could have a second election by
acclamation, he declined both the aldermanic and mayoralty honors
that were offered him.

In a quiet and unostentatious manner he was a generous
contributor to deserving charities, irrespective of nationality
or creed. He was one of the most prominent English-speaking
Catholics in Montreal. As a personal friend of Archbishop
Bruchesi, Mr. Smith was frequently consulted in the church’s
temporal affairs.

Mr. Smith twice married: His first wife was Miss Mary A. McGlynn
and his second wife who survives him, was Miss Margaret M.
McNally, daughter of the late Bernard McNally. Two sons were the
issue of the first marriage, Clarence F. Smith, vice president
and general manager of the Ames, Holden, McCready, Limited, and
Frederick H. Smith, who lived in the West Indies, until his death
in April, 1912. To the second marriage the following children
were born: Rose M.; Charles F., who died on August 20, 1911;
Marguerite M.; Francis C.; May G.; and Geraldine M.

The Montreal Herald said of Mr. Smith: “There was no better
citizen of Montreal than the late Charles F. Smith. He had
made his way in the world by dint of rare power of business
organization. In addition he was a man who made friends and held
them. He had no taste for public life himself, but he had a deep
interest in public affairs and in the men who in public life
supported his views. It was so in the affairs of the Board of
Trade and resulted in his becoming president of that body. It
was so in civic affairs and resulted in his being much against
his inclination, elected to the council. It was so in Dominion
politics, and if he has passed away before his party friends had
the opportunity of showing their appreciation, it is certain that
the fighting ranks of the conservative party had few more prudent
or more generous counsellors.

“Mr. Smith went to the city council with Mr. Laporte, Mr. Ames
and the late Mr. Hart at a time when the city had just been
aroused to the need of wholesale reforms. He played a part of
much importance, for with two or three other trained business men
he sat in at the centre of things, on the old finance committee
and supervised a general cleaning up of the city hall. It was the
good work of those days that made possible the larger reforms of
later years.”

The Montreal Gazette said editorially of him: “By the death of
Mr. Charles F. Smith another able and successful man has been
taken from Montreal’s commercial life. Mr. Smith through years of
painstaking energy built up a successful business, from which the
city benefited as well as himself.

“In the process he won the respect of all with whom he became
associated. Commercial organizations valued his advice. The
Board of Trade counted him as a wise counsellor. When the city’s
affairs were in need of improvement he served in the council
and with his associates did useful work in its behalf. He could
have had other public offices had he desired, but his preference
was for private life. He has passed away at a ripe age, held in
regard alike for the qualities of his mind and of his heart,
and leaving a memory that will encourage others to follow his
footsteps.”


GERALD OTHO ROUSSKI ELIOTT.

Since 1908 Gerald O. R. Eliott has occupied the position of
assistant marine superintendent of the Canadian Pacific Railroad
Company’s Atlantic steamship lines. He was born March 28, 1874,
in Dalhousie, India, and is a son of George Augustus and Helen
(Jardine) Eliott.

Gerald Eliott received his education at Taplow grammar school,
the Maidenhead high school and then served as a cadet on H. M. S.
School Ship Conway. Naval life having a particular attraction for
him, he entered the mercantile marine and served for some time
in sailing vessels of the White Star line. He was an officer in
connection with various steamship lines and was doing service on
boats which carried British troops during the South African war.
In 1901 he joined the Canadian Pacific steamship lines and served
as an officer on various ships until he was appointed to his
present important position of assistant superintendent in 1908.

Mr. Eliott’s naval career includes the following appointments:
midshipman, R. N. R., 1890; appointed acting lieutenant in H. M.
S. Jupiter in 1900, having gone through the gunnery and torpedo
course; received naval reserve decoration for fifteen years’
service in commissioned rank; retired in 1912 as commander.

In 1908, in Toronto, Ontario, Mr. Eliott married Miss Edith
Aspden, a daughter of Thomas Aspden, of Lancashire, and later of
Chicago, Illinois, and Toronto. Mr. Eliott is a member of the
Church of England and upholds conservative principles at the
polls. His club is that of the Commercial Travelers of Montreal.


AURELIEN BOYER.

Aurelien Boyer, a man of recognized professional ability and
prominence, who since 1899 has been an associate member of the
Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, was born in Montreal and
pursued his education in schools of the city. He was graduated
with honors as civil engineer and metallurgist from Ecole
Polytechnique, a department of Laval University, with the class
of 1896 and at once entered upon the active work of his chosen
profession. He was in charge of the survey and location of the
Yukon telegraph line and resigned from the department of public
works of Canada after his appointment as superintendent of
government telegraphs and cables for Quebec and the maritime
provinces. In 1905 he was chemical engineer and local manager of
the A. D. Gall Petroleum & Chemical Company, having charge of
their wood distillation plant at Mont Tremblant, Quebec, and in
1909 became vice president and chief engineer of the Duckworth
Boyer Engineering & Inspection Company, Ltd., which was later
consolidated with the Canadian Inspection Company, Ltd., under
the name of the Canadian Inspection & Testing Laboratories, Ltd.
Of the latter company he is now vice president and treasurer.
Scientific knowledge, acquired skill and ability have brought him
to a place in the front rank of those who are engaged in similar
enterprises in the province.

In June, 1903, Mr. Boyer married Madame Elmira Corinne Dufresne,
of Three Rivers, Quebec. He belongs to the Engineers Club
and the Winchester Club. He is now a member of the board of
administration of L’Ecole Polytechnique and a director of
Association des Anciens Elèves de L’Ecole Polytechnique.


LIEUTENANT COLONEL JAMES GEORGE ROSS.

Lieutenant Colonel James George Ross, president of the Ross
Realty Company, Ltd., and favorably known in Montreal as a
prominent figure in financial circles, was born in this city,
October 18, 1861, a son of the late Phillip Simpson and Christina
Chalmers (Dansken) Ross, both of whom were natives of Scotland.
His early education was acquired in private schools, with
later attendance at the high school of Montreal and subsequent
attendance at the Ontario Agricultural College in Guelph, from
which he was graduated with the class of 1881.

Mr. Ross went to the northwest upon an extended trip with a
view to settling there, but returned to Montreal and associated
himself with his father, who was a representative of the
profession of chartered accountant. Shortly afterward he was
admitted to partnership with his brother, the business being
carried on under the firm style of P. S. Ross & Sons, and on
the death of his father he became the head of the firm. He
is a chartered accountant and a member of the Association of
Accountants and is a fellow of the Dominion Association of
Chartered Accountants. Aside from his business in that connection
he is president of the Ross Realty Company, Ltd., and as such
figures prominently in real-estate circles, negotiating and
managing many important property transfers.

Mr. Ross has always evinced a great interest in military matters.
In 1879 he joined the Ontario Field Battery, retiring in the year
1883. In 1884 he held a commission as officer in the Victoria
Rifles, retiring in 1891 with the rank of captain. In 1898 he
joined the Fifth Royal Highlanders and in 1899 was gazetted
captain while in August, 1906, he was promoted to the rank of
major and in May, 1909, was made lieutenant colonel. In 1907 he
received the Long Service medal for officers having served for
twenty years. He is in active connection with the Montreal Board
of Trade and is a director of the Crown Trust Company. His
interest and support extend to charitable and benevolent projects
and he is a life governor of the Montreal Western Hospital.
Fraternally he is a Scottish Rite Mason, while in club circles he
is widely and favorably known, his membership being in the St.
James Club, Canada Club, Beaconsfield Golf Club, Canadian Club,
Montreal Curling Club, Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club, Montreal
Amateur Athletic Association, Westmount Athletic Club and the
Junior Army and Navy Club of London, England. In his younger days
he was very active in athletic sports, especially in running, and
he handled the snowshoe with expert skill. In 1887 it was claimed
that he was “the best man in Canada who ever strapped on a racing
shoe.” In the winter of 1888 he accompanied Lieutenant Schwatka
in the explorer’s trip through the Yellowstone Park and was the
only man who came out in as good shape as he went in.

[Illustration: LIEUTENANT COLONEL JAMES G. ROSS]

In March, 1891, Mr. Ross married Miss Alice Margaret Monk,
daughter of the late John Monk, an advocate of Montreal, and they
have two daughters, Marjorie and Evelyn.


THOMAS MUSSEN.

One of the best known merchants of the past generation in
Montreal, and a man whose well ordered life and high business
principles commanded the respect of all who knew him, was born in
1804, in Yorkshire, England, and came to Canada with his parents
in 1817, the family home being established in the south part of
the province of Quebec near the Vermont line.

Thomas Mussen early entered business life in Montreal, becoming
a clerk with the firm of William Smith & Company with whom he
remained for about ten years. He was careful with his earnings
and in 1827, he had saved sufficient capital to enable him to
purchase a small stock of dry goods, opening a store on St. Paul
Street, near Jacques Cartier Square, then the heart of the retail
district.

The business prospered from the first and when larger quarters
were demanded he removed to Notre Dame Street, at the corner of
St. Gabriel, being the first merchant to locate on Notre Dame
Street, and afterwards located at the corner of St. Lawrence
boulevard and Notre Dame Street, where he continued until 1865.
In that year the store was removed to Craig Street, near St.
Lawrence boulevard, where he continued until his new building was
erected at the corner of St. Lambert and Notre Dame. There the
business was successfully continued by him until his death April
5, 1892. Each removal had indicated a demand for larger quarters.
The business was marked by continuous growth and development
under the strong guiding hand of Mr. Mussen, who came to be
ranked with the leading merchants of the city. His store was one
of the leading commercial establishments of the province. After
the death of Mr. Mussen, the business was carried on by his sons,
William W. and Henry S., until 1900 when it was discontinued, the
brothers retiring from active business. William W. Mussen died in
1904 and Henry S. Mussen passed away in 1912.

Harold Beaufort Mussen, son of William W., and a well known
insurance and real-estate broker of Montreal, after acquiring his
education in the schools of his native city, entered the employ
of the Canada Atlantic Railway, where his developing powers
and ability won him promotion until he became general agent. He
continued with them until October, 1904, when after a service of
twelve years he withdrew to engage in business on his own account.


PETER LYALL.

In the death of Peter Lyall Montreal lost a citizen who left
the impress of his individuality for good upon the community in
which he lived. He was a man of fine personal appearance, and his
splendid physique was an indication of the strength of his mental
and moral nature. For many years he was connected with business
interests as a prominent contractor, being the head of the Peter
Lyall & Sons Construction Company, Ltd. While in his seventieth
year at the time of his death, he had always remained in active
connection with his business until a few days prior to his demise.

Scotland numbered Mr. Lyall among her native sons, his birth
having occurred at Castletown, Caithness, Scotland, where he
gained a practical knowledge of the contracting business before
crossing the Atlantic in 1870. When he sought a home in the
new world Montreal was his destination and he made his initial
step in circles here in the employ of his cousin, the later
Peter Nicholson. Six years were sufficient to bring him a wide
acquaintance that he believed justified him in embarking in
business on his own account. He was joined by his two sons,
William and Traill O. in 1892, who are still connected with the
business that was established in Montreal in 1876. The third son,
Peter D. Lyall, is head of a large contracting firm in Winnipeg.
From the time that he started out independently Peter Lyall was
successful and his name figured prominently in connection with
building operations in Montreal and this part of Canada. He kept
in close touch with all phases of the business and with all
progressive steps therein. Many of the business structures of
Montreal still stand as monuments to his ability, his energy and
his notable ambition. He carried out the erection of the Quebec
Bank Building, the Royal Victoria Hospital, Macdonald Engineering
buildings at McGill, the Sun Life building, the Canada Life,
the Grand Trunk general offices, the Coristine building, the
new Board of Trade, the Stock Exchange, the Guardian Life, the
Dominion Express and Transportation buildings, and hundreds of
others. Some of the finest residences of the city also stand as
monuments to his handiwork, notably among which are the homes of
the late Sir Edward S. Clouston and George L. Cains. From the
time that he started out in business his rise was continuous. It
was soon evident that he understood the building business, both
from a scientific and practical standpoint, that his reliability
made him worthy of a liberal patronage, and that his energy
and indomitable spirit made possible the prompt and faithful
execution of his contracts. Success came to him soon and was well
merited, so that he gained place among the prosperous residents
of the city. His ability in management, his power of carefully
formulating plans and then executing them with determination
was seen in his cooperation in the organization of a number of
companies which have constituted leading factors in industrial,
commercial and financial circles. He was one of the promoters of
the Lachine Rapids Hydraulic & Land Company, formed in 1896, and
of the Midway Land Company in the same year. He was one of the
organizers of the Laprairie Brick Company in 1904.

Mr. Lyall was united in marriage to Miss Christina Oman, who,
like her husband, was a native of Castletown, Caithness,
Scotland. They became the parents of three sons, William and
Traill O., of Montreal, Peter D., of Winnipeg and a daughter,
now Mrs. D. W. Lockerby, of Montreal. Mr. Lyall possessed a
social nature that found expression in his membership in the
Canada, Reform, Canadian, Country and Engineers Clubs. His kindly
disposition made him a favorite in all circles, and among no
class of people was he more appreciated than by his own employes.
He was deeply interested in all that pertained to affairs of
government and to municipal progress. For many years he was a
prominent member of the liberal party, earnestly striving to
promote its success, and in 1904 he unsuccessfully contested the
St. Antoine district for the Dominion parliament. At one time he
was president of the Montreal Reform Club and at all times took
a firm stand in opposition to misrule in public affairs and in
support of all that he believed would uphold the honored tenets
of government and promote the best interests of the people in
general. For two years he was a member of the Montreal city
council and brought his splendid business acumen to bear on
civic problems, proving himself one of the strongest men at the
council table. He was afterward eagerly besought to again become
a member of the council but declined. He took a deep and helpful
interest in the Citizens Association, being in hearty sympathy
with its purpose, and at the time of his demise was one of its
vice presidents. Above and beyond all this Mr. Lyall was known
as a man of most generous and benevolent spirit, ever seeking
to promote the welfare and happiness of his fellowmen. He could
not listen unmoved to a tale of sorrow or distress, and to the
extent of his ability he extended a helping hand to the needy. He
gave not only freely of his money but also a large portion of his
time to good works. He was president of the Protestant Hospital
for the Insane at Verdun, and his efforts were a potent force
in making it one of the excellent institutions of its character
in the country. The Western Hospital found him equally helpful
and generous. Thus he made his presence felt beneficially in
commercial, political and philanthropic circles. To know him was
to esteem and honor him by reason of what he accomplished and the
methods he pursued. The most envious could not grudge him his
success, so honorably was it won and so worthily used.


ALFRED B. DUFRESNE.

In insurance circles in Montreal and among business men in
general the name of Alfred B. Dufresne is well known because of
his activity in the field to which he directs his efforts. He was
born April 13, 1874, at Joliette, Canada, a son of J. Alfred and
Honorine (Delfausse) Dufresne, who now reside in Montreal. He
was educated in Plateau Academy and at the age of eighteen years
began work as a clerk in the office of the Alliance Assurance
Company in Montreal. During the twelve years he served the
company he won promotion from time to time until he became chief
clerk, his capability and fidelity thus winning him recognition
and gaining for him substantial advancement. In 1903 he was
appointed inspector for the Mount Royal Assurance Company and
so continued until 1907, when he was appointed chief specific
rating inspector of the Canadian Fire Underwriters Association.
In 1908 he was appointed manager of the Montreal-Canada Fire
Insurance Company, filling the position for two years, or until
1910, when he took up general agency work, now representing the
Northwestern National Insurance Company, the Montreal-Canada Fire
Insurance Company, the Anglo-American Fire Insurance Company, the
Protection Fire Insurance Company and the Rimouski Fire Insurance
Company, with offices in the Duluth building.

On the 12th of October, 1909, Mr. Dufresne was married to Miss
Gabrielle Mathieu, and to them have been born two daughters,
Jacqueline and Françoise. The family reside at No. 171 Esplanade
Avenue, and Mr. Dufresne is a member of the St. Denis Club. Much
of his life has been passed in the city where he now resides,
and his admirable traits of character, as well as his business
ability, have gained him firm hold on the regard and good-will of
all with whom he has been associated.


CHARLES ALBERT DUCLOS.

The name of Charles Albert Duclos figures in professional circles
in Montreal as that of a lawyer whose ability has won for him a
large clientage. He is a man of scholarly attainments, which,
added to his knowledge of the law, has gained him prestige among
the successful advocates of the city. A native of Joliette, P.
Q., he was born on the 3d of August, 1861, his parents being
the Rev. R. P. and Sophie A. Jeaureneaud Duclos. The father was
a French-Canadian, while the mother was born in Switzerland.
The Rev. R. P. Duclos has devoted his life to the work of
the ministry as a representative of the Presbyterian church.
Realizing the value of education as a factor for success in any
chosen field of labor, the father provided his son with good
opportunities in that direction and, after attending the Montreal
high school, Charles A. Duclos entered McGill University, in
which he pursued the arts course, winning the B. A. degree in
1881, and then entered upon the study of law, winning the B. C.
L. degree, with the Elizabeth Torrance gold medal in 1884. His
high standing in scholarship constituted the basis upon which
his friends builded their belief in his successful future, and
the faith which they manifested has found justification in
his professional career. Following his graduation he at once
entered upon active practice in Montreal, where he has remained
continuously since. Aside from his practice he is the vice
president of the Ross Realty Company, which was organized in
1906, and in that connection he has displayed sound business
judgment and enterprise.

In June, 1889, Mr. Duclos was united in marriage to Isabella
Spence, a daughter of G. M. Holbrook, of Ottawa, and they reside
at No. 488 Elm Avenue, Westmount. Mr. Duclos’ fellow citizens of
Westmount called him to the office of mayor, in which he served
in 1905-6, giving to the city a businesslike and progressive
administration. He is a conservative in politics, and he stands
for all that means progress along material, intellectual,
political and moral lines. His religious faith is that of the
Presbyterian church. His social connections are with St. James,
Canada, Royal Montreal Golf, St. George Snowshoe Clubs, of
Montreal; and the Rideau Club, of Ottawa. Appreciative of the
social amenities of life and readily recognizing and appreciating
these qualities in others, he has gained many friends in these
organizations. However, he regards the practice of law as his
real life work and bends his energies, in major part, toward
his professional duties. He was created king’s counsel in 1903,
and the years of his active practice now cover nearly three
decades--years in which he has made continuous advancement as the
result of constantly developing power in the line of his chosen
profession.

[Illustration: CHARLES A. DUCLOS]


REV. CANON JOHN MACPHERSON ALMOND.

Rev. Canon John Macpherson Almond, rector of Trinity church,
Montreal, is a man whose practical piety has been demonstrated in
many ways, as a traveling missionary, on the field of battle, in
the pulpit and in quiet work among his people. His name stands as
a synonym for sincerity of purpose, upright living and breadth of
mind, and his accomplishments have already been important enough
to form a notable part of the history of the Anglican church in
Canada. Canon Almond was born in Shigawake, Quebec province, July
27, 1872, and is a son of James and Mary Ann (Macpherson) Almond.
He studied in the University of Bishop’s College at Lennoxville,
from which he was graduated B. A. in 1894 and M. A. in 1901. He
was ordained deacon in the Anglican church in 1896 and priest
in the following year, being stationed first as a missionary in
Labrador and becoming afterward traveling missionary for the
Quebec diocese. In October, 1899, he was commissioned chaplain to
the Royal Canadian Regiment and accompanied it to South Africa,
where he was chaplain to the Nineteenth Brigade, composed of
the Gordons, Cornwalls, Shropshires and Canadians. His conduct
during the campaign received high praise, more particularly in
connection with his attendance on the enteric fever patients
at Bloemfontein, and he was given a medal for courageous and
untiring work in all conditions of danger both from the enemy and
from disease and discomfort.

Returning to Canada in December, 1900, Canon Almond was made
assistant curate at Holy Trinity Cathedral, Quebec, and as
such remained one year, after which he was appointed rector
at Grand Mere. In 1904 he was transferred to Montreal, where
he has since filled the position of rector of Trinity church,
winning the love, respect and confidence of his parishioners
and the high regard of all who have an opportunity of knowing
his honorable and upright life. Canon Almond is a preacher of
great power and forcefulness and has won a wide reputation as a
speaker, delivering among others the oration at the decoration
of the soldiers’ graves in Montreal on Victoria Day, 1905. He
was elected president of the South African Veterans Association
of Montreal in 1908 and of the Last Post Association two years
later. Since March, 1911, he has held the office of chaplain,
with the honorary rank of captain, in the Sixth Duke of
Connaught’s Royal Canadian Hussars. In 1912 he was appointed
chaplain of the Montreal jails. Archdeacon Ker has called him
“a splendid preacher,” and the Toronto Globe speaks of him as
“a man of zeal, practical piety and unselfishness, with a knack
for executive work”--tributes which he has won by most able
and untiring work in many fields. Canon Almond was married in
October, 1901, to Nellie Estelle, daughter of H. G. Beemer of
Quebec.


WILLIAM LANGLEY BOND, K. C.

William Langley Bond, one of the well known advocates of
Montreal, belongs to an old Canadian family, his parents being
Lieutenant Colonel Frank and Mary (Scott) Bond. Colonel Bond is a
well known financial agent and stockbroker of Montreal and is the
eldest son of the late Archbishop Bond, Primate of All Canada,
and Eliza (Langley) Bond. The father has been connected with
banking and financial interests for many years and has also been
prominent in military life.

William L. Bond was born in Montreal, January 20, 1873. He
attended the high school in Montreal and then entered McGill
University, from which he received the degree of B. A. in 1894
and of B. C. L. in 1897. In 1898 he became an advocate and
shortly thereafter a member of the legal firm of Atwater, Duclos,
Bond & Meagher, of Montreal. Among the famous cases which he
argued was the Cantin case, which was tried before Jl. Comte, P.
C., England. In November, 1911, he was appointed a K. C.

For a number of years Mr. Bond was captain and adjutant of the
Prince of Wales Fusiliers. He is also honorary treasurer of the
Province of Quebec Rifle Association. In his religious faith he
is an Anglican and was elected lay secretary of the Montreal
Synod in 1907 and also church advocate. In 1910 he was made a
governor of the Montreal Diocesan Theological College. Mr. Bond
is prominent in club life, being a member of the committee of
St. James, and a member of the Reform, the Arts, and the Winter
Clubs. He is a great friend of outdoor sports and the lines
along which he seeks recreation are indicated by his membership
in the Royal Montreal Golf Club, the Montreal Curling Club and
the Forest and Stream. He also belongs to the Montreal Military
Institute and is an honorary member of the Polo and Country Club.


ROBERT ANDERSON BECKET.

Robert Anderson Becket, did much to promote musical talent,
directly assisting many young musicians, and thus his loss was
distinctly felt in musical circles, when death called him on the
6th of May, 1910. He had passed the seventy-fifth milestone on
life’s journey, his birth having occurred in Scotland, December
30, 1834. His father, James Becket, came to Canada with his
family in 1841 and was connected with the customs department
at Montreal, where Robert A. pursued his education in private
schools. He was a young man in his twenty-fourth year, when on
January 11, 1858, he wedded Anne Wilson, born in Bellemeana,
Ireland, a daughter of Samuel Wilson.

Robert A. Becket had made his initial step in business as
bookkeeper for his uncle, J. C. Becket, on St. James Street
in Montreal, but in the year of his marriage, removed to
Belleville, Ontario, where he embarked in business on his own
account conducting a music and stationery store, for about eight
years, or until 1866, when he returned to this city and became
manager for the D. Morris Ice Company. Some time passed and he
became owner of this enterprise, in which connection he built
up a large and profitable business. He organized a joint stock
company called the City Ice Company, Limited, and devoted all of
his time to the conduct of his business, carefully directing its
interests. He was a progressive man and was especially active
along musical lines, doing much to help young musicians. He was
also a prominent figure in quartet and choir work and there was
perhaps, no one who did more to stimulate among the young, a love
for music of the higher class, than Mr. Becket.

Unto Mr. and Mrs. Becket were born twelve children, of whom five
are living: Christina A.; Dr. George C., of East Orange, New
Jersey; Ralph A., of Montreal; Fred M., of Niagara Falls, New
York; and Frank W., of New York. The family attend the Erskine
church, of which Mr. Becket was a prominent member and elder,
his religious faith constituting the root from which sprang his
many good deeds, wrought along lines of continuous benefit to his
fellowmen.


HAROLD EARLE WALKER.

Harold Earle Walker, practicing at the bar of Montreal as a
member of the law firm of Chauvin, Baker & Walker, was born in
Westmount, Quebec, in 1882. His father, James Robert Walker, a
native of the city of Quebec, became senior partner of the well
known firm of J. R. Walker & Company of Montreal and is not
only well known in business circles but also through his active
connection with public affairs. At one time he was mayor of
Westmount and has taken an active part in furthering matters of
civic virtue and civic pride. He married Agnes Cooper Earle.

After attending the Abingdon school, Mr. Walker became a student
in McGill University, completing the arts course in 1904 and the
law course with the class of 1907. His standing is indicated
by the fact that he won the Elizabeth Torrance gold medal and
the Macdonald scholarship. Following his graduation with the
class of 1907, which was indicative of the completion of the
thorough course of law prescribed by McGill, he was admitted to
the bar and after a year spent in France returned to Montreal to
enter upon the active practice of his profession, which he now
follows as a member of the law firm of Chauvin, Baker & Walker.
An extensive practice is fast adding to his experience and
developing the powers with which nature endowed him.

In Montreal, in 1911, Mr. Walker was united in marriage to Miss
Hazel A. Hart, a daughter of R. A. Baldwin Hart. His religious
faith is that of the Presbyterian church, and something of the
nature of his recreation is indicated in the fact that he is a
member of the Beaconsfield Golf Club. He is a typical young
professional man of the age, alert, energetic, watchful of
opportunities. His friends anticipate for him future success, and
the record he has already made shows that he has taken a far step
in advance since entering upon the active practice of law.


JOSEPH BOWLES LEARMONT.

The history of a country is no longer an account of wars and
conquests, but is a record of notable business activity, of
intellectual, aesthetic and moral progress and political
management and control. While never active in the field of
politics, Joseph Bowles Learmont was not only highly successful
where his tastes led, but was as well one of the foremost
merchants of the city, and well known in the business community
of Montreal. He cooperated in various interests having broad
humanitarianism as their basic principle, and he was a
connoisseur on rare books and engravings. His interests were wide
and varied and brought him into close connection with many of the
leading citizens of the Dominion.

Mr. Learmont was a native of Montreal. From the beginning of his
business career success attended him so that he at length was
numbered among the city’s most substantial business men. In all
his career there was no esoteric phase, his advancement having
been through constructive and progressive methods. Studying the
demands of the times and the conditions of trade he was no small
factor in the growth and development of the extensive wholesale
hardware business of Caverhill, Learmont & Company, of which Mr.
Learmont was the senior member. This well known house succeeded
Crathern & Caverhill (which was established in 1854) and occupies
a foremost position in its line, with a reputation for commercial
integrity second to none.

Successful business man that he was, commerce constituted but one
feature in the life of Mr. Learmont. He was of decided literary
tastes and was frequently heard on literary and historical
subjects. He was, moreover, the author of a most interesting
paper on folk lore, in which extended mention is made of the
folk lore of Canada. Another paper of equal interest from his
pen is on The Canadian Indian. Mr. Learmont was widely known as
a collector of rare books and manuscripts, etchings, engravings
and autograph letters, his knowledge of such being that of a
connoisseur. His collection of Bibles comprised more than one
hundred rare volumes. He also wrote on engravings, translations
of the English versions of the Bible, children’s elementary
books, etc.

Mr. Learmont’s keen interest in matters historic was probably
best shown in his purchase of Quebec House, the home of Major
General James Wolfe, Westerham, Kent, England. The motive which
inspired him to make the purchase was to secure the property
for the Canadian people, to be held by them in perpetuity
“irrespective of race, language or creed.” His desire was that
the Canadian people maintain it so that it may be open to
visitors and free to all that are interested in Canada. Mr.
Learmont always manifested the keenest interest in anything
associated with Wolfe and had made a collection of engravings of
the famous general. He also possessed an excellent painting of
Wolfe’s father, the work of Sir James Thornhill.

[Illustration: JOSEPH B. LEARMONT]

Mr. Learmont was a member of the council of the Montreal Art
Association and treasurer of the local branch and one of the
council of the Archaeological Institute of America. He likewise
became one of the early members of the Antiquarian Society of
Montreal.

Mr. Learmont was first married to Miss Amelia Jane Holton, a
daughter of the late Hon. L. H. Holton, M. P., a prominent
parliamentarian and statesman. Following her death, he married,
in 1882, Charlotte Smithers, a daughter of the late Charles
F. Smithers, president of the Bank of Montreal. Mr. and Mrs.
Learmont were always in full accord concerning religious and
charitable work. He was connected with the Congregational church
and a generous supporter of church and benevolent enterprises.
Mrs. Learmont is particularly well known in efforts to ameliorate
the conditions of life for the unfortunate. She is interested
in the movement for providing playgrounds for children; is
vice president of the Montreal Day Nursery; vice president of
the local branch of the Needle Work Guild, and president and
convener of the local branch of the ladies’ committee of the
Victorian Order of Nurses. She is likewise a director of the
City Improvement League; was one of the directors of the Royal
Edward Institute, and is one of the honorary presidents of the
Young Women’s Christian Association. She was one of a deputation,
headed by the Countess of Aberdeen, who presented Queen Alexandra
an address of congratulation from twenty-five hundred women of
Canada.

Mr. Learmont was a member of the committee of management of the
Montreal General Hospital; a member of the board and a governor
of the Montreal branch of the Victorian Order of Nurses, and a
director of the Charity Organization Society. He belonged to
the Montreal Board of Trade, of which he was for two years a
councilor, and in more strictly social lines was a member of
the St. James, Mount Royal, Montreal and City Clubs. He was
termed “a man of exquisite taste and deep knowledge on special
subjects.” He was an advocate of all that is most progressive and
beneficial, never choosing the second best but seeking out those
things which are most beneficial to the individual and to the
community, recognizing every man’s relation and obligation to his
fellowman.

Mr. Learmont died March 12, 1914.


FREDERICK WILLIAM THOMPSON.

Centuries past the history of a country consisted of a record
of wars and conquests--the contest of man with man; today the
history is the record of man’s contests with material forces
and those who are making the history of a country are the men
who are controlling its important agricultural, commercial and
professional interests. It is they who are shaping the annals of
the nation and those who rise to leadership in any given line are
the men who are preparing the records that in years to come will
be eagerly read as the history of the past. In this connection
the name of Frederick William Thompson stands prominently forth,
for he became one of the foremost figures in connection with the
milling industry of Canada. He was born in Montreal, January 16,
1862, and was but in the prime of life when he passed away in
London, England, May 7, 1912. His parents were the late Andrew
and Josephine (DeLesperance) Thompson. The son was educated in
Montreal and in Brooklyn, New York, living for some years in the
latter city. Subsequently he returned to Montreal and entered
the service of the Exchange Bank as a clerk, remaining with
that institution for seven years. It was thus that he gained
his preliminary business experience which he later turned to
account in the management of milling operations. In 1882 he
joined the Ogilvie Mills in Winnipeg, becoming general manager
of the Ogilvie Milling Company in 1888. Following the death
of W. W. Ogilvie in 1900 the entire company’s interests were
consolidated and the business purchased by Mr. Thompson and C. R.
Hosmer. In 1911 the Ogilvies were made millers to the King. The
business gradually grew and developed and became a focal point
in the milling industry of the country, setting the standard for
activity along that line. Mr. Thompson was active in coordinating
forces and in developing an enterprise which became second to
none in all Canada. He had wonderful powers of organization
and could unite seemingly diverse elements into a unified and
harmonious whole. He considered no detail as too unimportant to
claim his attention, while, at the same time, he gave due regard
to the major points in his business. His executive force and
management were many times called forth in other connections.

He had voice in the control of many important business and
financial interests and in affairs of a public and semi-public
character. He was a director of the Canadian branch of the
Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Company, the Montreal
Transportation Company, the Canadian Appraisal Company, the
Electric Flour Patents Company, the E. N. Heney Company, the
Royal Bank of Canada, the Manitoba Assurance Company, and was
president of the Keystone Transportation Company and of the
Canada Appraisal Company. He was also the originator of the
Kaministiqua Power Company and of a large number of other
enterprises which contributed to the history of the country in
its commercial and financial development.

As stated, Mr. Thompson was a prominent figure in relation to
many public and semi-public interests. He was a governor of the
Winnipeg General Hospital; and a life governor of the Protestant
Hospital for the Insane, the Western Home and the Boys’ Home.
In 1908 he lectured on Plain Business Facts. He was president
of the Winnipeg Industrial Exchange Association and of the
Winnipeg Board of Trade. He was likewise a vice president of the
Winnipeg Rowing Club; president and patron of the local branch
of the Royal Caledonia Curling Club, and honorary president of
the Winnipeg Hockey Club. He was a director of the Montreal
Association for the Blind, governor of the Montreal Western
Hospital, councilor of the Montreal Board of Trade, and in
Montreal no less than in Winnipeg he was greatly interested in
all public enterprises and philanthropic undertakings. In 1903 he
was a delegate to the Fifth Commercial Congress of the Empire.

In the previous year Mr. Thompson received the Prince and
Princess of Wales, now King George and Queen Mary, at the Ogilvie
Mill in Winnipeg and subsequently presented the Princess with
the picture of the largest flour mill in the British Empire. It
was in the same year that the largest shipment of flour to South
America from the Dominion of Canada was made.

In 1882 Mr. Thompson was united in marriage to Miss Wilhelmina
Reid, a daughter of the late William Reid of Bedford, province of
Quebec, and their children were Marion, Fred, Alice and Helen.
The first named became the wife of D. C. Rea, of Winnipeg,
manager of the Royal Bank. Mr. Thompson was prominently known in
club and social circles, holding membership in the St. James,
Mount Royal, Canada, Forest and Stream, Royal Montreal Golf,
Montreal Jockey, and Auto and Aero Clubs; Montreal Amateur
Athletic Association; the Montreal Curling Club; the Rideau Club
of Ottawa; the Constitutional of London; Manitoba of Winnipeg;
and the York Club of Toronto.

Perhaps no better estimate of the life and character of Mr.
Thompson can be given than by quoting from an editorial which
appeared in one of the papers at the time of his demise and which
read:

“Death has within a year robbed the Canadian milling industry of
its two most prominent leaders. During the years which brought
Robert Meighen and Frederick William Thompson to the top, the
flour milling industry underwent an expansion and consolidation
second only to that of the transportation industry and the
metal industries. The process was peculiarly favorable to the
rise of men of strong personal character and large intellectual
capacity. It is not surprising, therefore, to find the leaders
of the industry taking a larger part in the public life of the
country than those of almost any other business. Without ever
seeking office or public honors, for which indeed the cares of
his business left him no time, the late Mr. Thompson exercised a
very wide and effective influence upon the beliefs and policies
of Canada in business matters. When he spoke it was not as a mere
expert miller, but as an authority of the widest knowledge; and
as he never wasted a public utterance by dealing with any matter
on which he was not perfectly informed, he was listened to with a
respect which neither his wealth nor his business success alone
could have commanded. There are men still living who can remember
when the flour milling of Canada was carried on in hundreds
of small local mills under separate ownership. The process of
centralizing the industry has been pretty well completed now;
such companies as that of which Mr. Thompson was the active head
are national in their scope and the extent of their properties.

“He has been cut off in the prime of life and it is difficult to
conjecture what further progress of organization he might have
participated in, had he lived. Whatever it might be, we can be
sure that the interests of Canada would have been advantaged, for
he was a thorough Canadian by birth and by conviction and ever
regarded the milling industry less as a source of wealth than
as a factor in Canada’s greatness. In these days the best and
most practical form of patriotism is frequently to be found in
business.”


WILLIAM H. HOPE.

William H. Hope, for more than thirty years an active business
man on St. Catherine Street, near Mansfield, was born, March
9, 1840, in the north of England, and died September 11, 1903,
so that his life span compassed sixty-three years. He came to
Montreal as a young man and on July 26, 1878, was married in
this city to Miss Mary E. Percy. Their family numbered seven
children: Lena, who is Mrs. Thomas Bradley, now a resident of
New York city; Eva, the wife of Rev. Hunter Laverie, of Forest,
Ontario; William G., of Portland, Oregon; Adam V., who died in
infancy; Sadie, who is the wife of George Wanless, of Outremont;
Clifford R.; and Elsie.

Mr. Hope was a well known business man, conducting an art store
at one location for over thirty years. His business integrity was
above question and he was respected by all who knew him. In his
political faith he was a conservative, but did not take an active
part in politics. He was interested, however, in the promotion
of athletic and outdoor sports for the young. A man of domestic
taste, he found his greatest happiness at his own fireside, doing
everything in his power to promote the welfare of his wife and
children. He held membership in St. Paul’s Presbyterian church
and his life was actuated by high and honorable principles that
made him a thorough gentleman, courteous, kindly and considerate
at all times.


JAMES O’CONNOR.

Prominent in the business and financial life of the city, James
O’Connor was numbered among Montreal’s well known and successful
business men. He was born at St. Alphonse, province of Quebec,
and when a young man in his teens, came to Montreal at which
time his capital was but little more than his energy, pluck and
determination. From the time of his arrival here his attention
was largely concentrated upon business affairs and he wisely
improved his time and opportunities, thus advancing step by step
until he reached the plane of affluence. For many years he had
charge of the wholesale pork packing house on Williams Street and
there laid the foundation for his fortune.

For a number of years before his death, Mr. O’Connor had largely
confined his business activities to the stock market, where he
was a prominent figure. While a man of sound judgment and keen
business sagacity, one of his strongest characteristics was
his great courage and persistency. During the great financial
depression of 1907, when security values were slumping in a
manner that brought financial ruin to many, Mr. O’Connor’s
fortune suffered a large shrinkage. He had confidence in the
future, however, and the pluck to hold on, with the result that
he recouped his losses and added substantially to his fortune,
which was estimated at over a half million dollars at the time of
his retirement.

He was one of the largest individual holders of Dominion Steel
preferred and also an extensive holder of the common stock. He
was likewise a heavy stockholder in the Dominion Coal Company.

All his life he was a man of business, which through careful
attention brought him substantial as well as honorable success.
Mr. O’Connor was a figure that attracted attention and he made
lasting friendships in business as well as in private life.
He was known as a man of his word, and always ready to lend a
helping hand to those less fortunate in life’s battle. Many of
his acts of kindness and substantial assistance were known only
to the recipients. His acquaintance was large and included the
prominent business and public men of his time.

[Illustration: JAMES O’CONNOR]

Mr. O’Connor held membership in St. Anthony’s Catholic church and
in politics he was a conservative. In his habits and tastes, he
was most domestic, finding his greatest pleasure in administering
to the welfare and happiness of his family. The most envious
could not begrudge him his success, so honorably was it won and
so worthily used for the benefit and assistance of others. His
nature was one of extreme generosity and his example is worthy of
emulation.

His sudden death on April 15, 1909, left a widow, a son and two
daughters. James O’Connor is a resident of Montreal; Margaret
resides at home; and Laura Esther is now Mrs. G. F. Hemsley.
Mrs. O’Connor previous to her marriage which took place in St.
Patrick’s church, Montreal, was Miss Catherine Curran, a daughter
of John Curran, a prominent and distinguished citizen of this
city.


HARRIS VINEBERG.

Among the mercantile institutions of Montreal is that of H.
Vineberg & Company, clothing manufacturers for the trade, the
inception and building up of which business is entirely due to
the indefatigable efforts of H. Vineberg. The firm occupies
what is known as Vineberg’s building, eight stories in height.
Hundreds of young men have learned their trade and received their
start in this establishment, and that many of them today occupy
creditable positions in life is in a measure due to the lofty
principles which are the policy of the firm. Many have profited
by Mr. Vineberg’s kindly advice, who took an interest in each
employe of his large enterprise and who, moreover, often helped
them to begin their career in the right direction. Mr. Vineberg
has aided many men who are today prominent in professional life
in the city and has ever taken a deep interest in charitable and
church organizations, having particularly given his aid to those
who came to this country in straitened circumstances in order to
enjoy the privileges of British freedom, British institutions and
the prosperity held out to all who but want to grasp it in the
vast Canadian commonwealth.

Harris Vineberg was born in 1855, on the 25th of December, a
Jewish feast day called Chanuka, in Zidugira, Russian Poland.
Zidugira means Jewish bush, and his ancestors owned the vast
forests in Poland from which this name is derived. It may be
mentioned in this connection that the cable address used by the
house of H. Vineberg & Company today is “Zidugira,” perpetuating
in a manner the memory of that place which gave birth to him and
whence he sallied forth into the world to build his fortune. It
seems that this reverent attitude toward his birthplace, toward
his parents and toward his people has been the guiding star over
Mr. Vineberg’s career, the star which has led him to the goal.
His parents were Lazarus and Malca Vineberg, the former of whom
died in Palestine in 1901 and the latter in 1882.

Their son Harris received a strictly orthodox education from
private teachers. After having mastered the curriculum he
assisted his father in the lumber business for the last two years
which he spent in his native land. However, the young man could
not content himself with the limitations which hedged him in on
all sides under Russian rule and, coveting the opportunity of a
wider sphere of action, he made up his mind to seek that country
under which the greatest personal liberty, the greatest freedom
of thought, the greatest tolerance of religious views prevailed.
With an eye to the practical, he selected that part of the empire
which seemed to him to hold out the greatest opportunity.

In September, 1872, Mr. Vineberg came to Montreal on the
steamship Sarmatian. A brother had broken the home ties with
him and with this brother he worked one year in Glengarry
county, where he acquired a fair knowledge of English. He then
made for Montreal in order to profit by the opportunities
which the fast growing center of population held out and for
seven months he worked in a humble capacity, earning but two
dollars a week. On Saturdays and Sundays he instructed two boys
in the Hebrew language and in this manner earned sufficient
to pay for his board. Quickly accommodating himself, however,
to the new conditions of life, Mr. Vineberg never lost sight
of his purpose and, husbanding his small resources, he strove
eagerly to establish himself in business. He opened a small
store at No. 662 Craig Street, near St. Peter, and devoted his
whole time for one year to that establishment with such good
success that at the end of that period he had to seek larger
quarters on McGill Street, where he remained until 1876, when
removal was made to Lancaster, Ontario. Careful of his profits,
he was there enabled to establish a general country store of
considerable size which he conducted for four years,--years
which brought him added prosperity. Mr. Vineberg has ever held
a warm place in his heart for the little village of Lancaster,
to which he largely credits his commercial education. There he
had already attained such prominence that he was moving in the
best of circles and was associated with and sought out by the
foremost men of that county. In 1880 Mr. Vineberg returned to
Montreal, having definitely decided to engage in the manufacture
of clothing and, beginning in a small way in a private house,
he formed a partnership with G. Burnett under the firm style of
G. Burnett & Company. Although the firm’s policy was such that
it should have resulted in success, it was forced to close out
in 1891 and liquidated in that year. Such means as Mr. Vineberg
had acquired up to that time were swept away by this unfortunate
venture, and when he started again in 1892, tenaciously holding
to his purpose, he had to begin practically without capital.
However, he enjoyed a good reputation and among his personal
following were many who had utmost confidence in his integrity
and ability. He secured the assistance of Mr. Westgate of the H.
B. Knitting Company, and it was this combination which formed
the beginning of Progress brand clothing, under which name the
output of H. Vineberg & Company is favorably known to the trade
in all the Dominion. His thorough understanding of the business,
his capacity for detail, his executive ability and understanding
of human nature led him to the position which he now occupies
at the head of one of the leading establishments of its kind
in the city. The firm was incorporated in 1908 and in 1912 was
transformed into a joint stock company, of which Mr. Vineberg
became the president.

Although Mr. Vineberg’s mercantile interests are large, he has
found time and opportunity to prove himself one of those men
to whom the progress of the city and the welfare of its people
is of foremost importance. Deeply grateful for such success as
has come to him--and in his modest way not at all ascribing it
to his personality, his energy, his patience, his judgment and
industry--Mr. Vineberg welcomes the opportunity of giving to
charitable institutions and of aiding those who strive to make
a success of life. He has never forgotten how he once started
himself--a poor Jewish boy without means and friends--and how he
had to struggle to obtain a place in society. It is therefore
but natural that he shows the deepest understanding and the
greatest sympathy for those who today find themselves in similar
conditions, even if these are not so trying as those which
the young emigrant from the Sarmatian met. Mr. Vineberg is a
director of the Jewish Colonization Institute, engaged in Jewish
communal work. He was president of the Young Men’s Benevolent
Hebrew Society from 1888 until 1892, during which time Baron de
Hirsch sent the first ten thousand dollars with which the Baron
de Hirsch Institute was founded. Before being president of this
society, Mr. Vineberg was a director and in that capacity wrote
to the famous Jewish philanthropist calling his attention to
the needs of such an institution, and it was he who was largely
instrumental in founding the institute at St. Elizabeth Street.
In addition to his duties in connection with the Benevolent
Hebrew Society for Young Men and the Baron de Hirsch Institute,
Mr. Vineberg was one of those who were most active in promoting
its religious school and he was chairman of the committee having
charge over that department for many years. He is a member of
the Spanish-Portuguese Synagogue and also of the English and
German Synagogue on McGill College Avenue, in which latter he
held the position of secretary for four years. He was one of the
leading and most energetic spirits in moving the synagogue to
McGill College Avenue from St. Constant Street, being at that
time the secretary. He also is a director of the Hebrew Free Loan
Association and a member of every Jewish charitable institution
in Montreal. However, that his charity and his interest in those
who are afflicted is not limited by creed is evident from the
fact that he is a governor of the Montreal General Hospital.

During his long business career Mr. Vineberg has been the mentor
of many of the leading merchants and manufacturers of this city
who began their careers in his employ and who learned their trade
in his place and there laid the foundations of their fortunes.
Hundreds of well-to-do families in Montreal have been able to
establish themselves in comfortable circumstances through their
connection with the house of Vineberg & Company. There are a
number of professional men who occupy an honored place in their
spheres of activities and who are indebted to Mr. Vineberg for
timely help and advice and there are many who are well known in
the city today who reached these shores as emigrants with small
means, and friendless, and who found in him one who was willing
to assuage such troubles as beset them.

Mr. Vineberg is devoting much of his time to the care of his
wife, a sufferer, and it is therefore but natural that he does
not give so much of his time to the active operation of his large
business interests, the management of the house of H. Vineberg
& Company being entrusted largely to the husband of his eldest
daughter. Yet he is still active and his advice is highly valued
and often sought in commercial circles. He is a member of the
Board of Trade and in that connection has always stood for
things which would promote progress and prosperity in Montreal.
He is a member of the Canadian Manufacturers Association and a
director of the Canadian Credit Men’s Association. Although he is
interested in all movements that make for efficient government of
city, province and Dominion, for the highest type of sanitary
system, the best health conditions, the beautification of the
city, he has never actively entered the political arena.

On October 23, 1876, Mr. Vineberg married Miss Lily Goldberg,
daughter of the late Rev. Hyman Goldberg, who for a number of
years was assistant minister of the Spanish-Portuguese Synagogue.
Mr. and Mrs. Vineberg became the parents of three daughters:
Libbie, who married Isidor Cohen, a member of H. Vineberg &
Company; Eva, who married A. J. Hart, president and general
manager of the Hart Manufacturing Company; and Malca, who is the
wife of A. Z. Cohen, a member of the firm of L. Cohen & Sons.

Mr. and Mrs. Vineberg have twelve grandchildren, and it may
be mentioned as illustration of his deep affection for his
family that the pictures of these children adorn the walls of
his private office. When deeply engaged in business thoughts,
these children’s faces, no doubt, smile to him encouragement and
fill him with satisfaction in the knowledge that around him are
growing up generations of his own blood who appreciate and love
him for what he is to them and will honor him for what he has
done to lighten their life’s burdens when they will occupy the
stage of life’s activities.


PHILEMON COUSINEAU, B. A., LL. D., K. C., M. L. A.

As a member of the firm of Bastien, Bergeron, Cousineau, Lacasse
& Jasmin, Philemon Cousineau, K. C., occupies a foremost position
among the legal fraternity of Montreal. Moreover, he has gained
a reputation as a legislator and is considered today one of the
foremost authorities on constitutional law in the province. He
has important commercial interests, and his career has had in
its various aspects a lasting influence upon the growth and
development of the city. He was born at St. Laurent, Quebec, on
October 25, 1874, and is a son of Gervais and Angelique (Grou)
Cousineau.

Philemon Cousineau was educated at Sainte Therese College
and Laval University, from which he graduated in 1896. Being
called to the bar, he began the active practice of law in July
of that year and has ever since continued with increasing
success. He is professor of constitutional and municipal law at
Laval University, which institution of learning conferred upon
him the degree of LL. D., after he had presented a thesis on
Corporations. He has also been for some time king’s counsel and
enjoys a profitable and representative practice.

Mr. Cousineau is extensively interested in industrial and
financial projects which have had to do with the city’s progress,
among them being the Mount Royal Telephone Company, of which he
was president, and previous to its absorption by the Canadian
Light & Power Company he was a director of the Saraguay Light &
Power Company. He is also president of the St. Lawrence Tobacco
Company. He was mayor of the town of St. Laurent from 1904 to
1908 and both as an official and citizen has had no little to do
with the progress of that flourishing town.

In 1897 Mr. Cousineau was united in marriage to Miss Helmina
Gendron, and they have four daughters. In politics Mr. Cousineau
is a conservative and in 1908 was elected to the legislature of
the province of Quebec from the county of Jacques Cartier and
reelected in 1912. He is a trusted counselor of the party and has
done far-reaching work on committees as well as on the floor of
the house. Public-spirited in the most noble sense of the word,
he has ever stood for that which is best for the greatest number.
In 1913 he was delegate of the Canadian government to the general
meeting of the International Institute Of Agriculture at Rome,
Italy.

[Illustration: PHILEMON COUSINEAU]


EDOUARD NAPOLEON HEBERT.

The house of Hébert has been one of the foremost families of the
Dominion since the early dawn of Canadian history. One of the
first Canadian farmers, Louis Hébert, arrived in Quebec with
his family in 1617. Tradition has it that previously he passed
some time in Acadia, where he “was the first to utilize the
salt-water marshes of the Bay of Fundy by building dikes to keep
out the tides.” He continued to cultivate the soil at Quebec and
on February 28, 1626, as a reward to him and an encouragement
to others, the Duc de Ventadour, viceroy of New France, issued
a patent granting Hébert “in fief noble to him and his assigns
forever” a seignorial domain on the River St. Charles, near
Quebec, and confirming to him a concession made by the preceding
viceroy, the Duc de Montmorency. It was expressly stated in the
deed that these grants were made in consideration of Hébert’s
“long and painful labors, perils and expenses, incessantly
supported in the discovery of the lands of Canada and that he is
the head of the first family which has settled and dwelt there
since the year 1600 till now * * * having left his relations
and friends to go and form this commencement of a colony of
Christian people in those lands * * * which are deprived of the
knowledge of God.” Charles Lecroix Hébert, a rich trader and the
first farmer on the island of Montreal, built a residence in
1655 on Jean Baptiste Street, which is still standing and which
is shown in one of the illustrations of this history. Hébert,
named Larivière, was born in 1633 and was a companion in arms of
Dollard and present at the massacre of Long Sault in May, 1660.

Edouard Napoléon Hébert was born in Montreal on March 10, 1874,
and is a son of J. Napoléon Hébert, who was born January 14,
1850. His father, Louis Hébert, the grandfather of our subject,
was born in Quebec in 1810 or 1812 and from that city removed to
Montreal, while his father was the proprietor of the Boulangerie
du Roi (bakery of the king) at Quebec. This establishment was
subsequently continued by one of his sons, a brother of the
grandfather of our subject.

E. Napoléon Hébert, in the acquirement of his education,
attended Montcalm school of this city and subsequently improved
his advantages by a commercial course. He entered upon active
business life in connection with Hudon & Hébert, engaged in the
grocery business, for whom he made customs entries and acted as
assistant cashier. He is now treasurer of the “Twelve Companies”
and largely engaged in the real-estate business, being a young
man of very great ability, pleasant in manners and of sound
judgment. In two years the “Twelve Companies” with which he is
connected have disposed of properties to the value of eleven
million dollars, which gives an indication of the magnitude of
their transactions. Mr. Hébert is considered one of the best
informed men as to realty values here and his advice and judgment
are often sought by large investors and he has in many ways been
instrumental in promoting the growth and furthering the welfare
of his city. He is also interested in a cigar box factory which
gives employment to eighty men.

On July 7, 1891, at Montreal, Mr. Hébert was united in marriage
to Miss Cécilia Drolet and they have become the parents of
twelve children, four sons and eight daughters. The eldest son,
Charles-Edouard, is married and the other three are Armand,
Charles and Jean. The daughters are Gabrielle, Herminie,
Adrienne, Cécile, Marie-Thérèse, Germaine, Gilberte and Paulette.

In his political affiliations Mr. Hébert is a liberal, stanchly
upholding the principles of his party. He is well known in
fraternal orders, in most of which he has held important offices,
being connected with the Independent Order of Foresters and the
Canadian Order of Foresters. He is a member of the L’Alliance
Nationale, of the Club Canadien and the Club St. Louis. His
religious faith is that of the Catholic church and he is
prominent in the church of the Immaculate Conception, in which
for twenty-five years he has been organist. A man of great energy
and vast information as regards his business, Mr. Hébert occupies
a high place among the business men of Montreal and can ever be
found in the front ranks of those who have at heart the welfare
of their city. Although he has never cared to participate in
official life, he gladly supports worthy public enterprises and
enjoys the high respect and regard of all who come in contact
with him in business or social relations.


CHARLES SAMUEL JOHN PHILLIPS.

Many of the organized efforts for benefiting the general
interests of society have felt the stimulus of the cooperation
and indorsement of Charles Samuel John Phillips, whose position
in the business world is that of head of the firm of Morton,
Phillips & Company, stationers and printers. He was born in
Quebec on the 13th of October, 1844, and is a son of the late
Thomas Osmond Phillips, of Quebec, and his wife, Agnes Ritchie
Leslie, a daughter of Dr. S. W. H. Leslie, of the army medical
department. He was but a youth of thirteen when he accompanied
his parents to Montreal, where he has made his home continuously
since 1857, being, therefore, one of the older residents of the
city in years of continuous connection therewith.

It was in Montreal that Mr. Phillips was married in 1873 to Miss
Jessie Amelia Thomson, a daughter of the late William A. Thomson,
and her death occurred in May, 1910.

With the attainment of his majority Charles S. J. Phillips
entered business life and gradually advanced to the position of
head of the firm of Morton, Phillips & Company, stationers and
printers, which business was established in 1869. His activities
have been exerted with energy, force and effectiveness along
other lines, some of which have been of a semi-public and others
of a public character. He was formerly president of the Montreal
Citizens League and of the Montreal Dispensary and is now a
director of the Citizens Association. He is likewise a member of
the Business Men’s League and is a director of the Mount Royal
Cemetery Company. He belongs to the Natural History Society and
is deeply interested in the Boys Home, of which he is honorary
treasurer, and the Boys Farm and Training School at Shawbridge,
Quebec. He has been a student of the important political,
economic and sociological questions and has investigated
conditions which bear directly upon the interests of society at
large in its relation to citizenship and the opportunities which
are placed before the individual for his normal development and
advancement. His religious faith is that of the Baptist church,
and his political belief that of the conservative party. He is
well known as a member of the Montreal and Canadian Clubs. While
the winter months are spent in the city, he has an attractive
summer home, Mes Délices, at Notre Dame du Portage on the St.
Lawrence.


ALEXANDER GEORGE CAMERON.

Alexander George Cameron is one of the younger representatives
of the legal profession in Montreal. Since his admission to the
bar in 1910 he has made continuous progress. He was born in
Winchester, Ontario, May 11, 1884, a son of Alexander and Louise
(Reddick) Cameron, the former a native of Inverness, Scotland,
while the latter is of Canadian birth.

In the public schools of Winchester Alexander G. Cameron laid the
foundation for his education. He was a student in the Morrisburg
Collegiate Institute and received his law training in McGill
University, from which he was graduated B. C. L. with the class
of 1910. He at once entered upon the practice of law. His name
is also well known in the business world, being a director of
several commercial enterprises.

Mr. Cameron is known in military circles, being a captain in
the Fifth Royal Highlanders of Canada. His political allegiance
is given to the conservative party, and he is prominent in club
circles, his membership being in the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht
Club, the Manitou Club, the Kaniwakee Golf Club, the Beaconsfield
Golf Club, the University Club, the Montreal Club and the
Montreal Art Association. He is a Presbyterian in religious
belief.


GILBERT SCOTT.

Gilbert Scott was for many years a resident of Montreal and
a witness of its development and progress. He came to rank
prominently among the representatives of commercial and
financial interests and for an extended period was a member of
the Dow Brewery Company of this city. He was born at Chagford,
Devonshire, England, April 16, 1820. In early life he was a clerk
in a bank in London and came to Montreal in 1845. In the ’60s he
entered into partnership with William Dow, a well known Montreal
brewer and continued in active connection with the business until
his life’s labors were ended on the 9th of June, 1891, when he
was seventy-one years of age. The other members of the firm at
various times were John Harris, A. C. Hooper, J. Philip Scott,
son of Gilbert Scott, Angus Hooper and Major George Hooper.
Capable management led to the continuous growth and success of
the business until the year 1912, when the Dow Brewery became a
part of the National Breweries Company.

Gilbert Scott was connected officially with many large financial
and commercial institutions and was well posted upon financial
and commercial matters, but his fund of knowledge went further
and made him familiar with many other questions and interests
of the day. He was a director of the Bank of Montreal;
senior partner of the Dow Brewery Company; president of the
Intercolonial Mining Company; vice president of the Shedden
Company; a director of the North British and Mercantile Insurance
Company, and of the Canada Sugar Refining Company.

Mr. Scott was married to Miss Janet Cooper of London, England,
who died in 1875. He was survived by one son, James Philip, who
was a member of the Dow Brewery Company from 1876 until his
death, in 1898, and four daughters.

Mr. Scott was a member of St. Paul’s Lodge of Masons and was
always loyal to the teachings and purposes of the craft. He had
vivid recollections of the important points in the history of
Montreal, from the time when he located here in 1845, until his
death. As a man, he possessed many attractive social qualities
and was beloved by a large circle of friends.


JOSEPH RIELLE.

In the long years of an active professional career Joseph Rielle
has made continuous advancement until he stands today not only
as a veteran civil engineer and surveyor, but also as one of the
most capable representatives of his chosen calling in Montreal.
Each year has found him in advance of the position which he
occupied the previous year, because of his developing powers and
growing ability. He was born at Laprairie on the 6th of October,
1833, and received his initial business training with the firm of
Ostell & Perrault, architects and land surveyors, whose service
he entered in 1850 when a youth of seventeen years. He continued
with that firm for four years and then became assistant to Mr.
John Page, chief engineer of public works. He next accepted the
position of assistant engineer to the harbor commission and
eventually entered upon the general practice of land surveying in
Montreal and the surrounding district. He has been connected with
extensive surveys for the Grand Trunk and the Canadian Pacific
Railways and the harbor commissioners of Montreal and in addition
to his general practice has made a number of important hydraulic
surveys. In 1904 he was presented with a testimonial by members
of the society of land surveyors to mark the fiftieth anniversary
of his entry into civil engineering and land surveying.

While this has been his chief life activity, Mr. Rielle has
done important work in other connections. He was formerly
vice president of the Pontiac Pacific Junction Railway, and
he has done much work of a public and semi-public character,
whereby the general interests of the country at large have been
greatly promoted. He was secretary and manager of the Montreal
Turnpike Trust for about fifteen years. He was a member of
the council of Verdun, Montreal, from 1875 until 1900 and was
intrusted with many important public works. He is a life governor
of the House of Industry and Refuge, also of the Montreal General
Hospital, and is president of the Fraser Institute and Free
Public Library of Montreal. His activities have been of a nature
that have contributed largely to the general development and
good, but he has never taken an active part in politics.

[Illustration: JOSEPH RIELLE]

Mr. Rielle married Miss Jeannie T. Goldie of Laprairie, P. Q.,
who was vice president of the Montreal Industrial Rooms and who
died in June, 1904. Mr. Rielle has his home at No. 90 Union
Avenue and is a member of the St. James Club. He has now reached
the advanced age of more than eighty years, but is still active
in his profession and in spirit and interest seems yet a man in
the prime of life.


JOHN STUART BUCHAN.

No phase of life affecting the political and local status of the
province or its educational or moral development fails to elicit
the attention and interest of John Stuart Buchan and seldom
fails to receive his hearty cooperation and support. He is ever
willing to divide his time between his profession and public
service, recognizing ever the duties as well as the privileges
of citizenship and the obligations which devolve upon man in
relation to his fellowmen. He is well known as a practitioner
at the bar and his reputation as a capable lawyer has been well
earned. He was born at St. Andrews, P. Q., October 28, 1852,
the only son of the late William and Katherine (Stuart) Buchan,
of St. Andrews. The family is descended from the old earls of
Buchan. After attending public schools of his native city John
S. Buchan entered McGill University and won his B. C. L. degree
in 1884. He had determined to make the practice of law his life
work, and following his graduation he became an advocate, since
which time he has continued a representative of the Montreal
bar. Here he has worked his way up to leadership and in 1899 was
created a king’s counsel. For almost a third of a century he has
been engaged in practice here, and his ability has long since
placed him in a position of distinction among the leaders of the
legal profession in Montreal. At one time he was a member of the
editorial staff of the Canadian Jurist, and in 1904 he was a
royal commissioner for the revision of the provincial statutes.
Thus important governmental problems in connection with his
profession have elicited his deep interest and called forth his
abilities.

In 1885 Mr. Buchan was married to Miss Katherine McMartin, the
second daughter of F. McMartin, of St. Andrews. She died in
August, 1894, and in 1896 Mr. Buchan wedded Annie, the eldest
daughter of the late J. H. Henderson, of Montreal.

Mr. Buchan is an attendant of Christ’s Church Cathedral, while
his political faith is that of the liberal party. Political
honors and emoluments have had no attraction for him. His
activities, however, along other lines relating to the welfare
and progress of city and province have been resultant. He acted
as solicitor of the Lord’s Day Alliance of the province for a
time. He was also chosen a life governor of the Montreal Boys
Home in 1911 and many movements having broad humanitarianism as
their basis have received his indorsement. He is likewise the
vice president of the Natural History Society of Montreal. He is
not unknown in literary circles for under the nom-de-plume of
Douglas Erskine he has published “A Bit of Atlantis” and “Some
Notes on Mount Royal,” and various other papers of a scientific
nature. When questions of public welfare are at stake he is never
weighed in the balance and found wanting, and his support of any
project and measure is not the result of a hasty conclusion.
On the contrary he brings to all vital questions the habits of
the lawyer, carefully analyzing and weighing the points in a
situation and then giving his support thereto as the result of a
firm belief in the worth or righteousness of the case.


ARCHIBALD MURRAY CASSILS.

Archibald Murray Cassils, who as a wholesale leather merchant
gained an enviable business standing, while attractive social
qualities won him many friends, was but forty-eight years of age
at the time of his death, which occurred March 6, 1891. He was
born in July, 1843, in Renton, Dumbartonshire, Scotland, a son
of John and Margaret (Murray) Cassils. His education was there
acquired and he remained in his native land until 1856, when he
came to Montreal where a brother was residing. For a number of
years he was engaged in merchandising in connection with the
wholesale leather business, and made for himself an enviable
place in commercial circles, by reason of his enterprise, his
progressiveness and his business integrity. Gradually his trade
grew owing to his capable control of his interests, and success
in a substantial measure rewarded his labors.

In September, 1873, in Montreal, Mr. Cassils was married to Miss
Eva A. Shaw, and they became the parents of three children:
Marcia A., the wife of George P. Butters; William A., who died in
1906; and Angus Shaw Cassils.

Mr. Cassils was a member of the Masonic order and the American
Presbyterian church and his religious belief guided him in all
the relations of life, making him a man of high principle and
kindly spirit, straightforward in action and thoroughly reliable
in all things. While more than two decades have passed since he
was called from this life, he is yet kindly remembered by all who
knew him owing to his gracious presence and his sterling worth.


GEORGE CAMPBELL MACDOUGALL.

George Campbell MacDougall, recognized as one of the ablest
members of the brokerage profession, had not passed the fiftieth
milestone on life’s journey when death called him. He was born
June 6, 1843, in Ringmore, Devonshire, England, a son of Major
MacDougall, who belonged to the King’s Own Borders, and in 1857
came to Montreal. His son, George C. MacDougall, was educated
in the schools of this city, passing through consecutive grades
to the high school and afterward attending McGill University.
Throughout his active business career he was identified with
financial interests. He became a clerk in the Bank of Montreal,
worked his way upward until his experience, combined with his
recognized capability led to his assignment to a responsible
position with the New York city branch of the Bank of Montreal.
He remained in the American metropolis for a few years and while
in New York won several prizes for horsemanship at horse shows
there. He afterward entered the Lounsbury & Tenshaw Brokerage
Company, acquainted himself with the brokerage business and
returned to Montreal, where he formed a partnership with his
brother, Hartland St. Clair MacDougall, continuing in the
brokerage business until his death. The firm gained an extensive
clientage that made the business one of large volume.

Mr. MacDougall was married twice. He first wedded Miss C. J.
Bridges and they had one son, H. B. MacDougall. In 1887, in
Montreal, Mr. MacDougall was married to Miss Mary L. Macdonald, a
daughter of Hon. Donald Alexander Macdonald, a well known figure
in public life, serving as postmaster general in the Mackenzie
administration at Ottawa from 1873 until 1875, and as lieutenant
governor of Ontario from 1875 until 1880. He married Catherine,
daughter of Hon. Alexander Fraser, M. L. C., of Fraserville,
Ontario. To George C. and Mary L. (Macdonald) MacDougall was born
a daughter, Beatrice.

Mr. MacDougall was well known as a sportsman, was an expert
rider and was the owner of some fine horses. He was likewise
a prominent member of many clubs, including the St. James,
Montreal, Jockey, Forest and Stream and Hunt Clubs. His death
occurred March 31, 1892, and although he was then at the
comparatively early age of forty-nine years, he had achieved
distinction in his line of business and as a sportsman had gained
wide friendship among many of the most distinguished citizens of
the province.


JOSEPH CHARLES HECTOR DUSSAULT.

Joseph Charles Hector Dussault, a graduate of Laval University
and thus carefully trained for the profession to which he has
devoted his life, has been actively engaged in the practice
of law in Montreal since 1899. His course has been marked by
continuous progress until he has gained a creditable position
among the forceful, capable representatives of the bar. He was
born at Sherbrooke, Quebec, on the 19th of November, 1876, a son
of N. T. and Malvina (Deseve) Dussault, the former a merchant of
Sherbrooke, who was born there more than seventy years ago and is
still engaged in business in that city. He is well known in the
eastern townships and is recognized as a man of prominence in his
community.

Liberal educational opportunities were accorded Joseph C. H.
Dussault, who pursued commercial and classical courses in the
Seminary of Sherbrooke. Reviewing the broad field of industrial,
commercial and professional activity, he determined upon the
practice of law as a life work and in preparation therefor
entered Laval University at Montreal. On the completion of the
regular law course he was graduated and in 1899 received the
degree of Master of Laws. The same year he was admitted to
practice at the bar of the province of Quebec and entered alone
upon the active work of the profession. Advancement at the bar
is proverbially slow, yet he had as the basis of success broad
and thorough understanding of the principles of jurisprudence and
gradually worked his way upward. After three years he formed a
partnership with J. A. Mercier and in January, 1912, they were
joined by a third partner, P. L. Dupuis under the firm style
of Dussault, Mercier & Dupuis. Mr. Dussault has ever been very
careful in the preparation of his cases. His mind is naturally
analytical, logical and inductive and, therefore, his reasoning
is clear, his argument sound and his deductions clear and
convincing. He is also identified with financial activities as
one of the organizers and directors of the Merchants & Employers
Guarantee & Accident Company.

On the 1st of October, 1906, in Montreal, Mr. Dussault was
married to Miss Alice Dupuis, a daughter of J. O. Dupuis, one
of the founders of Dupuis Freres of Montreal. Her father is
also widely known in political as well as commercial circles,
his opinions carrying weight in party councils. He served as
alderman of Montreal and has been active in molding public
thought and opinion. That confidence is reposed in his business
ability and integrity is indicated in the fact that he was one
of the liquidators of the defunct Ville Marie Bank. Unto Mr. and
Mrs. Dussault have been born three children, Jeanne, Marcelle
and Jacques. The religious faith of the family is that of the
Roman Catholic church. Mr. Dussault is a conservative and strong
protectionist. His interest in politics is not a superficial one,
and he keeps well versed on the questions and issues of the day,
yet political honors and emoluments have no attraction for him.
He finds recreation through his connection with St. Andrew’s
Curling Club, of which he is a charter member. He now has a wide
acquaintance in his adopted city, where his developing powers
have brought him professional success, while sterling traits of
manhood have gained him place among the highly esteemed citizens.


ERNEST R. DECARY.

Ernest R. Decary, senior member of Decary, Barlow & Joron,
one of the foremost firms of notaries in Montreal, occupies a
distinguished professional position, viewed not only from the
extent, but as well from the prominence of his clientele. Mr.
Decary is a native of Montreal and was born on December 9, 1878.
He received an excellent education, graduating with the degree of
Bachelor of Arts from St. Mary’s Jesuit College and beginning his
business career alone, subsequently joined with him Mr. Barlow
and Mr. Joron, and he has since continued in that relationship.
This firm specializes in railway and bank work and they have come
to occupy a position second to none in Montreal professional
circles.

Mr. Decary personally acts as notary for the Canadian Pacific
Railway, the Canadian Northern and the Dominion and Traders Banks
and the Canadian Express Company, as well as for many other
institutions and corporations.

Although Mr. Decary has never aspired to political office, he
is deeply interested in the growth and expansion of his city
and readily gives of his time and means in support of worthy
enterprises. In politics he is a liberal. He is a member of
the Montreal, Royal Montreal Golf, University, Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht, and Lachine Boating and Canoe Clubs, and has views upon
business and social conditions. Yet a comparatively young man, he
occupies a position of dignity in the life of the city to which
his ripe judgment on matters of a commercial or legal nature
fully entitles him.

[Illustration: ERNEST R. DECARY]


BENJAMIN NAPOLEON LADOUCEUR.

One of the well known legal practitioners of Montreal and a
notary public, Benjamin Napoléon Ladouceur has a clientele both
representative and important. He is yet a young man, barely
thirty years of age, but has demonstrated his ability to capably
handle the most intricate legal problems. He was born on the
15th of January, 1883, at Ste. Marie de Monnoir, and is a son
of Mathias and Azilda Ste. Marie Ladouceur, both natives of
Ste. Marie de Monnoir. The paternal grandfather was Benjamin
Ladouceur, called Martin, his birthplace being Côté des Neiges.
His wife was Cèleste Vient, a native of Ste. Marie de Monnoir.
The grandfather in the maternal line was Jean Baptiste Ste. Marie
and his wife was Henriette Bédard, also natives of Ste. Marie de
Monnoir.

Benjamin Napoléon Ladouceur was educated at the College of Ste.
Marie de Monnoir and took his law degrees at Laval University
in July, 1910. He has since engaged in practice in Montreal and
also acts as notary public. No long novitiate awaited him for he
soon demonstrated his ability along legal lines and now enjoys
an important and lucrative practice. In his political views he
is a nationalist, a party which has for its aim the amelioration
of certain conditions of government which make not for the best
of the masses. In some ways it may be said that it is similar to
the progressive movement in the United States and this movement
has largely for its object a restricting influence upon political
malpractices. Mr. Ladouceur also interests himself along other
public and semi-public lines although he has never cared for
official positions. He is loyal to the city of his adoption and
ever ready to give his share of time and money in promoting her
interests.


WILLIAM RUTHERFORD.

The steps in the orderly progression of William Rutherford
whereby he has reached his present advanced position in business
circles of Montreal are easily discernible and each forward step
has brought him a broader outlook and wider opportunities. Born
in Montreal, April 22, 1864, he is a son of William and Elizabeth
(Jackson) Rutherford, both of whom are of Scotch birth, the
former coming from Jedburgh, Roxburghshire, and the latter from
Biggar, Lanarkshire. They were representatives of the excellent
Scotch type that has done so much for Canada and its substantial
upbuilding. The father was a member of the first council of
Cote St. Antoine, which afterward became Westmount. He was an
enthusiastic curler and greatly enjoyed other outdoor sports.
His interests, however, were largely concentrated upon the
development and management of important business interests. He
founded the lumber firm of William Rutherford & Sons in 1852 and
was largely instrumental in developing it into one of the most
extensive lumber enterprises of Canada.

In the acquirement of his education William Rutherford attended
successively the schools of Cote St. Antoine, the high school
of Montreal and the private school conducted by Hon. E. H.
Springrice. He crossed the threshold of the business world
as a junior clerk with Gillespie, Moffat & Company, general
merchants, and subsequently became a clerk for the Pillow Hersey
Manufacturing Company, owners of rolling mills, etc. Subsequently
he entered the firm of William Rutherford & Sons of Montreal and
upon the incorporation of the company became its treasurer. The
business is today conducted under the style of William Rutherford
& Sons Company, Ltd., dealers in and manufacturers of lumber and
timber. The business is now one of mammoth proportions and in his
official capacity William Rutherford of this review is bending
his energies to administrative direction and executive control.
Into other fields he has also extended his efforts and his
business interests are now of considerable volume and importance,
placing him among the prominent representatives of commercial and
industrial activity in the province. He is now the president of
the Dominion Box Company, Ltd., of the Grier Timber Company and
the Dominion Park Realty Company, Ltd.

On the 16th of May, 1894, in Montreal, Mr. Rutherford married
Miss Ida Bulmer, a daughter of John Bulmer and a representative
of a well known Montreal family. Their children are William J.,
John B., Jean, Andrew S. and Marjorie. Presbyterians in religious
faith, the family hold membership in St. Andrew’s church of
Westmount. Mr. Rutherford is a liberal in politics, conversant
with the leading questions and issues of the day. He has filled
a number of local offices, having been elected alderman of
Westmount in 1908, while in 1910 he was chosen mayor of the
city. In 1913 he was made school commissioner of the city and in
1912-13 was a member of the executive committee of the Canadian
Manufacturers Association. He is also a member of the committee
of St. Andrew’s Society, while along more strictly social lines
his membership is in the Canada, Engineers, Manitou and North
Lake Fish and Game Clubs. His success permits him that leisure
which enables him to enjoy fishing, hunting and other outdoor
and indoor sports, but he is preeminently a business man and one
whose successful methods might be studied by all who wish to gain
prosperity within the legitimate lines of business.


CARL ROSENBERG.

Among the mercantile houses of Montreal the British American
Import Company occupies a place of prominence and importance.
Under this firm style Carl Rosenberg is connected with Canadian
trade interests. Mr. Rosenberg was born in Kishenev, Russia,
on the 15th of July, 1870, a son of Wolf and Bessie (Dachis)
Rosenberg, both now residents of Montreal. The former has now
retired from active business life.

Carl Rosenberg was one of those who did not find the
opportunities which he sought in his native country and, seeking
the benefits of British freedom, selected the Dominion of Canada
for his field of operation and came to Montreal twenty-five years
ago, or in 1889, when a young man of about nineteen years. After
his arrival he went into partnership with a cousin, who had
preceded him to the Dominion and who was engaged in the importing
and dry-goods jobbing business. The name of the firm was
Shiller & Rosenberg and they continued for two years, when the
partnership was dissolved and Mr. Rosenberg became the leading
factor in the establishment of the British American Import
Company, who opened their place of business on St. Paul Street,
Montreal. His ability as a merchant, his ready understanding of
local market conditions and his indefatigable energy led to such
growth of business that in 1909 the firm was enabled to put up a
large building of their own at 516 St. Lawrence boulevard, into
which they moved in 1910. The British American Import Company
occupies a leading place in its line in Montreal and their
reputation is of the highest. Its success is largely due to the
executive ability of Mr. Rosenberg, its founder.

In 1888, when but eighteen years of age, Mr. Rosenberg, while yet
in Europe, was married to Miss Clara Sperling and to them were
born the following children: Hannah, who married Dr. Tannenbaum;
Sarah, now Mrs. Aronson; and Madge, Rose, Sadie, David and Moses.

Mr. Rosenberg is a liberal and, adhering to the faith of his
fathers, he was during 1910-11 a director of the Baron de Hirsch
Institute, but his fast expanding business interests forced him
to relinquish this position. He is a justice of the peace; vice
president of the Herzl Dispensary; a founder and an ex-president
of the Jewish Eagle Publishing Company, holding the latter office
for five years; and a member of Ionic Lodge, No. 54, of the
Masonic order. He is a shrewd and able business man and his name
and that of his firm stand for successful accomplishment in the
trade annals of the city.


REV. ALLAN PEARSON SHATFORD.

Rev. Allan Pearson Shatford, known in Montreal and throughout the
province of Quebec as a forceful and eloquent preacher, holding a
high position in Masonic circles as grand chaplain of the grand
lodge of Quebec and known in this city as most earnest, zealous
and consecrated in his work as rector of the Church of St. James
the Apostle, was born at St. Margaret’s Bay, Nova Scotia, and is
a son of the late James E. Shatford, a resident of Indian Harbor.

Rev. Allan P. Shatford acquired his education in King’s College
in his native province, from which he was graduated B. A. with
first class honors in English literature in 1895 and M. A. in
1898. In the former year he was made curate of the Anglican
church at Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, and served in that capacity
until 1900, during which time he was ordained deacon in 1896 and
priest in 1897. He was transferred from Bridgewater to North
Sydney, Nova Scotia, where he remained as rector until 1906,
moving in that year to Montreal, where he became assistant
rector of the parish of St. James the Apostle. He was promoted
to the position of rector in January, 1912, and still holds
this position which is an important and responsible one, for
the parish is one of the oldest and largest in Montreal. It was
founded in 1864 by Canon Elligood and the first church was built
by Mrs. Phillips on land donated by her. Canon Elligood continued
as rector from 1864 to 1911, dying in December of that year
at the advanced age of eighty-seven. He was succeeded by Rev.
Allan P. Shatford, the present incumbent, who is ably carrying
forward his predecessor’s work, giving his time, attention and
unusual talents to the promotion of the interests of the parish
and the spread of the doctrines in which he believes. There
are about four hundred and fifty families in the congregation,
and the church property is valued at seven hundred and fifty
thousand dollars. Its administration calls for farsighted and
capable work and Mr. Shatford has proved equal to the trust
reposed in him, aiding the trustees in every possible way and
proving his possession of unusual administrative ability and
organizing power. The church has had some of the most famous
ministers in Canada connected with its affairs at different
times, Bishop Dumlin, of the diocese of Niagara, having been at
one time assistant, as were also Bishop Duvernet, of Caledonia,
and Dean Abbott, of Niagara. The affairs of the congregation
are in a most flourishing and prosperous condition, and the
people of the parish find in Mr. Shatford a minister well suited
to their needs, a man sincere and high-minded in his aims, of
scholarly attainments and well directed ability. His sermons show
great force and power, and his lectures have gained him wide
recognition, winning him mention by the Montreal Gazette as “an
accomplished extempore speaker and a preacher of great power.”

Mr. Shatford is well known in Masonic circles, exemplifying in
his life the beneficent teachings of that order. He was grand
chaplain of the grand lodge of Freemasons for Nova Scotia from
1903 to 1906 and since that time has been grand chaplain of
the grand lodge of Quebec province. He was a delegate to the
Pan-Anglican Congress held in London in 1908; a delegate to the
general synod and to the church congress held in Halifax, Nova
Scotia, in 1910, speaking there in a forceful and telling way
upon parochial problems. “Today,” in his opinion, “it is Canada
for the world, and we think of England as the center of an empire
which tends to the solidarity of the human race and the universal
brotherhood of man.”


VICTOR MORIN, LL. D.

Victor Morin, prominent in connection with the legal profession
as a practitioner and as professor of administrative law and
doctor of laws in Laval University, is now at the head of the
firm of Morin & Mackay, notaries of Montreal. His name is also
well known in literary circles and his activities and his
writings have had a far-reaching and beneficial effect upon
public interests. Born at St. Hyacinthe, Quebec, on the 15th of
August, 1865, he is a son of Jean Baptiste Morin and Aurelie
(Cote) Morin. In the acquirement of his education he attended
successively Girouard Academy, the St. Hyacinthe College, from
which he was graduated B. A. in 1884, and Laval University, which
conferred upon him the LL. B. degree in 1888 and that of LL. D.
in 1910. He studied law in the office of Papineau, Morin & Mackay
and was admitted to the practice of the notarial profession in
1888. For a brief period thereafter he was a resident of Acton
Vale, Quebec, but in 1890 returned to Montreal and is now senior
member in the firm of Morin & Mackay. He is also custodian of the
archives of his late partners, D. E. Papineau, C. F. Papineau,
Durand and Morin, whose office was established in 1841. Aside
from his business he has occupied many positions of importance
and of public trust. While a resident of the town of Acton Vale
he was secretary-treasurer of the town from 1888 until 1890.
He has been treasurer of the board of notaries of the province
of Quebec since 1897 and he has various important business
connections. He was president of the Imperial Electric Light
Company from 1899 until 1901, became secretary of the Montreal
Real-Estate Association in 1904 and is now its president. He is
likewise president of the Crédit Métropolitain, of the Caisse
Hypothécaire, of the Montreal Debenture Corporation, of the
Récollet Land Company, and of the Federal Real-Estate & Trust
Company; vice president of the Security Life Insurance Company,
and a director of the Provincial Life and of the Provincial Fire
Insurance Companies. From 1897 to 1910, he was notary to the
corporation of the city of Montreal and resigned this position
in order to run for aldermanic honors. His high standing in his
chosen profession is indicated by the fact that he has been
made professor of administrative law in Laval University and is
regarded as one of the prominent law educators of the country.
His public-spirited citizenship finds expression in active
support of many measures and movements for the public good and
his cooperation can always be counted upon when the welfare
of city, province or country is at stake. He has taken great
interest for many years past in social questions, and is vice
president general of the St. Jean Baptiste Society, the national
association of French-Canadians. He was a director of Montreal
Citizens Association from 1908 until 1910 and his position upon
the temperance question is indicated by the fact that he is now
the general secretary of the Montreal Anti-Alcoholic League.

[Illustration: VICTOR MORIN]

Prominent in the Independent Order of Foresters, Mr. Morin was
its supreme vice chief ranger from 1898 to 1902, and has been
its past supreme chief ranger since 1905; in 1895-6 he edited
and published a paper in the interests of that fraternity called
Le Forestier. Since 1890 he has delivered many lectures to
fraternal societies and no man is better qualified to speak on
the beneficent basic principles of the organization.

His authorship has made Mr. Morin equally widely known. He was
actively interested in the literary work of the Cercle Ville
Marie as its secretary from 1886 until 1888. He is the author of
Vingt Ans Après, the second edition of which was brought forth
in 1909. He is silver medalist of the Ligue Nationale de la
Prévoyance et de la Mutualité, of Paris, France, and honorary
vice president of the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society of
Montreal. His active interest in affairs of vital importance
to the city has been manifest in his capable public service
as alderman of Montreal, to which position he was elected in
1910. His political support is given to the liberal party and
his religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic church. He
is prominent in club circles, is a member of the St. Denis and
Reform Clubs, and is secretary of the Maison des Etudiants. His
library, which is extensive and well selected, furnishes him his
chief source of recreation and interest.

Mr. Morin was married in 1893 at Biddeford, Maine, to Miss
Fannie, daughter of the Hon. D. Cote. In 1896 he wedded
Alphonsine, daughter of Victor Cote, of St. Hyacinthe. They
reside at No. 703 St. Urbain Street with their eleven children,
and spend their summer months in their attractive villa on the
slope of Mount St. Bruno. His life has been so varied in its
activities and so honorable in its purposes as to leave an
indelible impress for good upon the community and through his
professional, business and fraternal connections Mr. Morin has
come to be recognized as one of the leading residents of Montreal.


HUBERT ADOLPHE ELZEAR GRANDBOIS.

Hubert Adolphe Elzéar Grandbois, who since October, 1911, has
been connected with the notarial profession in Montreal, was born
in St. Casimir, Port Neuf district, in the province of Quebec,
on the 15th of January, 1876, a son of Michel Adolphe and Marie
Aurée (Charest) Grandbois, the former a dealer in wood. The son
pursued his classical education in the Seminary of Nicolet,
from which he was graduated in 1895. He afterward entered upon
the study of law in Laval University at Quebec, which conferred
upon him the degree of Bachelor of Laws, in June, 1898. On the
completion of his studies he was admitted to practice as a
notary in the following September and located at St. Casimir,
where he remained in active practice from September, 1898, until
October, 1911. He then came to Montreal, where he has since
remained and has attained high standing among the representatives
of the profession owing to broad and accurate knowledge, close
application and fidelity to the interests of his clients.

Mr. Grandbois was married in the city of his nativity on the 7th
of January, 1899, to Miss Marie Laetitia Belisle, a daughter of
Octave Germain and Marguerite (Daly) Belisle. The children of
this marriage are Marie Marguerite and Marie Laurette Grandbois.
The religious faith of the family is that of the Catholic church,
and Mr. Grandbois has membership with the Chevaliers de Colomb.


JOHN EDGAR.

The late John Edgar, who for many years was connected with the
fur industry in Montreal, was born in Woodstock, Ontario, March
12, 1843. During his boyhood the family removed to Hamilton,
Ontario, where his school days were passed. He began his business
career in the provision trade with Folingsby & Williamson in
Hamilton and later came to Montreal as representative of that
firm. Soon after his arrival in this city, or in 1866, he entered
the firm of Greene & Sons Company, wholesale furriers, in
which connection he worked his way upward, eventually becoming
a partner in the business. About the year 1895, when Greene
& Sons Company retired, Mr. Edgar succeeded to the business
which he continued for some years under the firm name of Edgar,
Swift & Company. When Mr. Swift retired Mr. Edgar formed a
partnership with Mr. Charles Coristine under the firm name of
Edgar, Coristine & Company, which relation was maintained for
four years, after which Mr. Edgar continued the business alone
until 1912, when he retired. He was one of the prominent furriers
of the city, developing and building up a business of extensive
proportions, and in commercial affairs his judgment was sound,
his enterprise keen and his diligence unfaltering.

In Montreal Mr. Edgar was united in marriage to Miss Selina
Kidner and unto them were born five children, three sons and two
daughters: John Hamilton, who is connected with the Canadian
Pacific Railway; Frank Clifton, connected with the Royal Bank
of Canada at Montreal; William Dewar, of the custom house of
Montreal; Katie Selina; and Lillian Maud. The death of the
husband and father occurred September 12, 1913, and was the
occasion of deep regret to many with whom he had been closely
associated in business and social circles. In politics he
was a conservative but without aspiration for public office.
He belonged to the Royal Albert Lodge of Masons and was a
faithful member of the Church of St. James the Apostle. In those
connections are indicated the principles which governed his life
and guided him in all of his relations.


CAMILLE TESSIER.

Camille Tessier, a young man possessed of laudable ambition and
determination, is making continuous progress in the field of
his chosen profession--that of the practice of law. He was born
at Berthierville, Quebec, July 26, 1887, a son of Dominique
and Odile (Des Rosiers) Tessier, the former a merchant at
Berthierville. He is descended from French ancestors who landed
here with the pioneers of the country. Like the greater part
of Canada’s first inhabitants, they were farmers and spent
their whole lives in cultivating the lands which they had first
courageously conquered from the wilderness and from the forest on
the north side of the St. Lawrence river, thus contributing in
large measure to the actual prosperity of the country.

Camille Tessier was accorded liberal educational opportunities,
which he improved, thus laying a broad foundation for his
later success. He pursued a course in the commercial college
of Berthierville, was a student in the Seminary of Joliette,
attended St. Mary’s College at Montreal, Laval University at
Montreal, in which he pursued his classical and professional
courses, winning the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws
degrees. He subsequently attended Eastman’s Business College of
Poughkeepsie, New York. As advocate, barrister and solicitor
he is making for himself a creditable position in professional
ranks. He has been a member of the Montreal bar since the 7th of
July, 1910, and the thoroughness and care with which he prepares
his cases and the logic of his deductions have gained him rank
among those who are winning success in the difficult and arduous
profession to which he devotes his energies. He makes a specialty
of commercial law and is a member of the Commercial Law League of
America. He is working his way to success vigorously but quietly
and honestly. Mr. Tessier is a member of the Roman Catholic
church. He was married in Montreal, on the 28th of January,
1913, to Edmee Paquette, and they have one child, Jean Marcel,
born in Outremont on the 28th of October, 1913. His courage and
a laudable ambition of living a life of usefulness to his family
and to his country have brought Mr. Tessier the high regard of
associates and all who know aught of his career.


CHARLES GIDEON HILL.

The life record of Charles Gideon Hill constitutes an
illustration of what the new world has to offer to ambitious
young men. Coming to Canada as an orphan boy, he steadily
worked his way upward, each forward step bringing him a broader
outlook and wider opportunities. He became in time a successful
merchant of Montreal and in later years devoted his time to the
supervision of his invested interests, which included large
property holdings and stock in many financial and commercial
enterprises. He was seventy-six years of age at the time of his
death, which occurred on the 12th of June, 1893, at the old home
at No. 247 Bleury Street, where he had lived for more than half a
century. He was born in England, but lost his father and mother
when quite young, after which he crossed the Atlantic and for
a time resided in New York. He afterward came to Montreal and
gradually he worked his way upward in a business way, realizing
at the outset of his career, that industry and honesty constitute
the foundation upon which success is built. In time he was the
proprietor of a small dry-goods establishment on St. Paul Street
and conducted it successfully for many years, but about 1870,
retired from commercial circles in order to supervise his large
estate which also included the estate of William Galt. From time
to time he became interested in business enterprises, holding
stock in many leading financial and commercial concerns. His
judgment was sound, his sagacity keen and in the control of
important interests he established his position as one of the
leading and capable business men of the city.

[Illustration: CHARLES G. HILL]

[Illustration: MRS. CHARLES G. HILL]

On the 19th of August, 1840, Mr. Hill was united in marriage to
Miss Margaret J. Galt, a daughter of William Galt, who for many
years was one of the leading citizens of Montreal. He engaged in
the tanning business near Glasgow, Quebec, and amassed a very
considerable fortune. Following his death, Mr. Hill retired from
commercial interests to supervise the Galt estate. To Mr. and
Mrs. Hill were born eleven children, eight of whom reached adult
age. These children were: William Galt, deceased; Charles G.,
who also has passed away; Margaret Ewing, the widow of G. M.
Patterson, residing in Cleveland, Ohio; Robert Ewing, deceased;
Adelaide, who married Samuel P. Wigg and resides in Lakefield,
Ontario; Lewis E., deceased; Helena Augusta, residing in
Montreal; Jean Elizabeth, now Mrs. E. A. Hilton; Peter Alexander;
Emma Louise, who married Albert A. Adams and is deceased; and
Dr. Adolphus James Hill, deceased. Mr. and Mrs. Hill devoted the
greatest care to rearing their large family and bestowed upon the
children their tenderest love. Those who grew to adult’s estate
were an honor to the family name and in full measure repaid the
care of the parents, whom they ever held in reverent memory. It
is due to the kind cooperation of Miss Helena A. Hill,--and to
her the publishers are indebted,--that they are able to
present herewith the excellent steel etchings portraying her
parents.

[Illustration: HELENA A. HILL]

Mr. Hill attended services and held a pew in the First Baptist
church and also in the Church of England, in the Cathedral. His
membership was in the latter and his wife, who died in 1882,
was a member of the former. Both were greatly esteemed and an
extensive circle of friends indicated their worth and the high
regard in which they were held.


WALDO W. SKINNER.

Waldo W. Skinner, practicing at the Montreal bar as a member
of the firm of Smith, Markey, Skinner, Pugsley & Hyde, was
born at St. John, New Brunswick, a son of the late Hon. C. M.
Skinner, K. C. His youthful days were largely devoted to the
acquirement of an education in the schools of his native city and
at Upper Canada College, Toronto, and having determined upon the
practice of law as his life work, he entered McGill University
in preparation for the bar, and was graduated B. C. L. in 1901.
In 1913 Mr. Skinner was created a king’s counsel. The year
following his graduation he entered upon the active work of his
profession and his course has been marked by continuous progress.
He is now associated with one of the leading law firms of the
city, Smith, Markey, Skinner, Pugsley & Hyde, and is actively
interested in much important litigation, in connection with which
he is retained as counsel for the defense or prosecution. From
the outset of his career he has recognized the fact that careful
preparation is one of the indispensable elements of success, so
that thorough work precedes his presentation of his cause in the
courtroom. His reasoning is clear and cogent and his arguments
strong and forceful.

In June, 1907, was celebrated the marriage of Mr. Skinner and
Miss Loulou Forget, the eldest daughter of the late Hon. L. J.
Forget, senator. Mr. Skinner in his social relations is well
known, being a member of the Mount Royal, St. James and Montreal
Clubs, while his interest in sports is further indicated in
his membership in the Montreal Racquet and Royal Montreal Golf
Cubs. Attractive social qualities render him popular in those
organizations, in which he has gained many friends.


THOMAS ROBB.

Organization is the watchword of the age. Promotion in every
field of endeavor is brought about through the agency of
organized effort and cooperation, and thorough study of each
situation constitutes the basis of effort in this direction. This
spirit and tendency of the age has led to the formation of many
companies or societies for the benefit of business interests and
it is in this connection that Thomas Robb is known, being manager
and secretary of the Shipping Federation of Canada. A native of
Scotland, he was born in the city of Glasgow in the year 1863,
his father being the late Thomas Robb, who for some years was
superintendent of police in Glasgow. Spending his youthful days
in that city, the son pursued his education in the public schools
and in the Glasgow Academy. Mr. Robb came to Canada first in 1883
and spent one year at farming in the Niagara district. Returning
to England he became identified with the shipping interests and
in connection therewith was located at different periods in
Australia, South Africa and New Zealand. He returned to Canada
in 1902 and upon the organization of the Shipping Federation of
Canada, which is incorporated by act of the Dominion parliament,
he was chosen manager and secretary. He still continues in
the dual position, his efforts being of marked value to the
organization in promoting its object and accomplishing its
purpose as he is actively engaged in all matters relating to
navigation and shipping. In 1913 Mr. Robb was appointed member
of the royal commission appointed to inquire into and report
upon the “Law Respecting Pilotage” and its administration in the
pilotage district of Montreal and Quebec.

In 1891 Mr. Robb was united in marriage to Miss Elizabeth
McLaren, a daughter of Andrew McLaren. Their religious faith
is that of the Presbyterian church and Mr. Robb belongs to St.
Andrew’s Society. He is a justice of the peace for Montreal and
district. He is likewise a member of the Engineers Club and of
the Canadian Club and has gained the warm friendship of many in
both organizations.


HON. JOHN JOSEPH CURRAN.

Hon. John Joseph Curran, barrister, jurist and orator, whose
life record was an honor to the land of his ancestors and to the
land of his birth was born in Montreal, February 22, 1842, his
parents being Charles and Sarah (Kennedy) Curran, both natives of
Ireland, the former born in County Down and the latter in County
Wexford. Emigrating to the new world they retained the intense
love of native land, so characteristic of the Irish race and
instilled the same deep attachment into their son, who with his
increasing age and powers gave freely of his time and talents for
the benefit of Erin’s green isle.

In the pursuit of his education Judge Curran attended a Jesuit
school and St. Mary’s College at Montreal, where he entered upon
a classical course. He afterward became a student in St. Joseph’s
College at Ottawa and in 1891 the University of Ottawa conferred
upon him the LL. D. degree. In the continuance of his education,
he entered McGill University as a student in the law department
and won his D. C. L. degree in 1862. It was in the spring of 1859
that he began preparation for the bar, reading at times under
the direction of such distinguished lawyers as Bernard Devlin,
Hon. T. J. J. Loranger and Andrew Robertson, K. C. While pursuing
his classical courses he cultivated a taste for literature and
oratory and in his student days developed the natural gifts that
in course of time made him one of the foremost Canadian orators.
It was also in his early manhood that he joined the Irish
national movement and thus his life was taking shape along those
lines which were to make him a power in moulding the history of
province and country.

The year following his graduation from McGill, or in 1863, he was
called to the bar of Quebec. No dreary novitiate awaited him.
Almost immediately his talents won him recognition and he gained
prominence as one of the younger members of the profession, by
the important part which he took in the conduct of a number of
notable criminal cases, including the Shehan, Havern, Kehoe and
Considine murder cases and the Dunbar, Brown, Kearney and T. F.
O’Brien frauds.

It is said that he had no superior in the conduct of election
cases. He was successful in the Devlin-Ryan, Tansey-Malone and
the James McShane-Loprairie contests and all these drew to
him the attention and favorable comment of the profession. He
was equally capable in the practice of civil law and was the
legal representative of some of the largest contractors of the
continent including men prominent in business in New York, Ottawa
and Montreal. His legal counsel was sought by men of prominence
again and again. Probably his last appearance as an advocate was
when he represented the Dominion government in an arbitration
with the province, the case being heard in the city of Quebec
about 1894.

Judge Curran was created a king’s counsel by the Marquis of
Lorne and was appointed secretary of the commission for the
codification of the statutes of the first De Boucherville
government. He was called to judiciary honor when made a puisne
judge of the superior court, December 5, 1892. He was appointed
solicitor general in the ministry of Sir John Thomas and
continued to hold that office after Sir Mackenzie Bowell became
premier. A contemporary writer said, “on the occasion of his
appointment his lordship was congratulated by the press without
distinction of party, both on public and personal grounds in
acknowledgment of his ‘indefatigable efforts to promote the
interests of his constituents’ and he was presented in 1890,
chiefly by citizens in Montreal, with a purse of seven thousand
dollars.” Judge Curran remained upon the bench for fourteen years
and proved himself the peer of the ablest jurist who has gained
the superior court bench. There were those who opposed him in the
beginning, but all came to acknowledge his capability, his record
being a credit and honor to the bench. His opinions were models
of judicial soundness and his record as a jurist was such as any
man might be proud to possess.

Politically his lordship was a liberal-conservative and he
rendered valuable service to his party. He was elected by a large
majority for Montreal Center to the house of commons in 1882,
1887 and again in 1891, and upon his appointment to the solicitor
generalship of Canada in 1892 he was reelected by acclamation.

On the organization of a law faculty in connection with the
University of Ottawa in 1892 Judge Curran was appointed to one
of the legal chairs and elected vice dean. He was also a member
of the senate of that university and president of its Alumni
Association. As an orator he swayed all by his eloquence. He
gained high rank as a lecturer and was frequently called upon to
address public gatherings.

In religious faith Judge Curran was a most earnest Catholic and
was ever watchful of opportunity to assist those of his faith
in public or in private. While his health permitted he never
failed to appear annually with his colleagues of the bench and
bar in the Tete Dieu procession and his piety and devotion in
the closing years of his life were an encouragement to the old
and an edifying example for the young. As a Canadian his life
work was one of conciliation and he strove to promote harmony
between all creeds and colors. He accepted invitations to address
gatherings of foreign colonists, and the Jews, Germans and
Italians knew him well, while among the people of his nationality
he was not only loved but respected. He yielded to none in the
breadth of his sympathy and generous desire for the union of all
denominations in the best and noblest objects. Following his
elevation to the bench he said “that as a public man it had been
his constant aim to bring about the union of hearts and minds
among all creeds and classes,” and “he was satisfied that if we
desired to have a prosperous country with a happy and contented
people we could only secure those blessings by all creeds and
classes uniting together for one common end, ‘the advancement
and welfare of Canada and the empire.’” In August, 1896, Judge
Curran was elected a delegate to the Irish Race convention,
which met in Dublin in September of that year. He had previously
been president of St. Patrick’s Society of Montreal and prior to
his elevation to the bench was one of the directors of the True
Witness Publishing Company. After his trip to the old country in
1907 the Burns Club honored him with an invitation to a banquet
and to respond to a toast to the memory of Robert Burns. On
rising to speak he said, that all had become brothers the world
over since men of such intense love for Old Scotia had, here in
our happy Canadian home, called upon a descendant of old Ireland
to do honor to the name and fame of Scotland’s greatest bard.
There are few, indeed, who have greater love for the land which
shelters their race than had Judge Curran. He was perfectly
familiar with Irish history, was a reader of Irish literature
and a lover of Irish music, and he was an ardent and unflinching
advocate of home rule.

In 1865 Judge Curran married Mary Elizabeth, the youngest
daughter of the late Patrick Brennan of Montreal. His third son,
Francis Joseph Curran, following his graduation from Manhattan
University of New York and McGill University of Montreal, was
called to the bar of his native province.

Something of the position which Judge Curran occupied in public
regard is indicated in works written of him ere his demise, which
occurred on October 1, 1909. Morgan in his volume of Canadian
Men and Women said, “by the Irish community of Montreal he was
regarded as one who had stood the test of devotion to their
common fatherland, but it is to Canada that he has given his
best service and by his fellow-Canadians, without distinction of
origin or creed, he is held in the highest esteem and honor.”
A Montreal citizen wrote of him, “he bears a character without
reproach and is as popular in legal and political circles as
he is respected.” The Montreal Gazette said editorially, “no
constituency in Canada has ever had a representative who gave up
more of his time, his talent and his energy to the promotion of
its interests than did Mr. Curran during the thirteen years he
has enjoyed the confidence of his electors. His genial kindly
nature, his large-heartedness, his conspicuous liberality
of mind, absolutely free from every trace of bigotry, and
his splendid oratorical powers caused him to be in constant
requisition whenever men were gathered together in the promotion
of worthy objects for the discussion of public affairs or the
advancement of the material and social welfare of the country.”
The Montreal Herald concluded an admirable eulogy with the
following paragraph: “Unselfishness and genuine consideration
for others, probably explained his personal popularity and his
political success. He used to say that the man in public life
erred in dodging office seekers. ‘When I saw one who looked as if
he wanted to get at me I always went to him first, and gave him
his chance to speak,’ he once explained. He gave freely of his
presence where he thought a good cause could be served, or a good
example be set. He did his duty, as he saw it, without flinching.
He was a good citizen, and he leaves a name to be held in honor.”


PIERRE-CHRYSOLOGUE LACASSE.

Pierre-Chrysologue Lacasse, who follows the profession of notary
in Montreal, is widely and favorably known in this city. He
enjoys a representative clientele and his practice is extensive
as he has gained a wide reputation on account of his extensive
knowledge, which is based on a thorough education. The Lacasse
family is an old and distinguished one in Canada, the first
ancestor to come to this country being Antoine Lacasse, also
called Casse or Cassé, who came to this country from Douai
(French Flanders) about 1650, or more correctly, between 1639
and 1665. This statement is based upon a reference made in an
appendix to the History of Canada by Abbé Ferland. The paternal
grandfather, François Lacasse, was born at St. Vincent de Paul
(Jesus Island) and the forefathers were born in the same parish.
The maternal grandfather, Joseph Brissette, was a native of St.
Cuthbert, of the county of Berthier, where his ancestors also
were born. The father of our subject, Narcisse Lacasse, was born
on February 5, 1821, of the marriage of François Lacasse with
Thérèse Bastien and died on December 27, 1892. He was a notary,
receiving his commission on June 15, 1849. The mother, Mathilde
Brissette, was born on November 1, 1820, a daughter of Joseph
Brissette and Marie Lavoie. She died in Montreal on August 29,
1911, at the advanced age of nearly ninety-one years. The father
followed his occupation in the parish of Ste. Elizabeth, in the
county of Joliette, where his wife was born.

Pierre-Chrysologue Lacasse was born on January 7, 1866, at Ste.
Elizabeth, county of Joliette, in the province of Quebec, and in
the acquirement of his education attended the model school of
Ste. Elizabeth, also receiving private tuition. In furtherance
of his knowledge he then attended Joliette College, now known
as the Seminary of Joliette, and Laval University at Montreal,
graduating with the Bachelor of Arts degree from the latter
institution in 1885. From the same institution he received
his degree of LL. B. in 1891. However, on June 3, 1890, he
had already been commissioned a notary and has followed that
profession ever since. On January 29, 1891, he was admitted to
the study of law for the profession of advocate. His professional
reputation is of the very highest character and he has also
extensively engaged in real estate and in dealing in bank and
insurance stock. Among important estates which he has handled as
testamentary executor were those of John Pratt, Thomas Philippe
Barron, L. C. Gravel and others.

The position conceded him by the profession is evident from
numerous important official and semi-official positions which
he has held. He was elected a member of the board of notaries
for the district of Montreal in 1897, 1900, 1903, 1906, 1909 and
1912. He was a member and afterwards president of the committee
of discipline and also of the committee of surveillance of said
board and a member and afterwards president of the commission
for the admission to the study of the notarial profession, which
position he now holds. In his political views he is independent,
giving his support to measures and candidates as dictated by his
judgment. His religious faith is that of the Catholic church. Mr.
Lacasse was connected with military life during a few years as
lieutenant in Company 4, Eighty-third Battalion of Infantry of
Joliette.

A man of wide experience and with a wide outlook upon life, he is
interested along lines of endeavor that touch upon the progress
of the city and can always be found among those who loyally
support any movement undertaken for public betterment. He is
highly respected and esteemed in the city where he is widely
known and enjoys the confidence and good-will of the foremost
citizens of Montreal.


ARTHUR A. BROWNE, M. D.

The tendency of the age is toward specialization and the
professional man who achieves distinction usually concentrates
his efforts not upon the broad field of his profession but upon
some particular branch thereof, and thus develops a proficiency
which he could not otherwise hope to attain. Such was the
record of Dr. Arthur A. Browne, educator and practitioner, who
gained eminence as an obstetrician. He practiced for more than
forty years in Montreal, entering upon the active work of the
profession in early manhood. He was born in Eastern township,
in 1848, and was descended from Irish parentage, and of a
family whose name figures prominently in military circles. His
more specifically literary course was completed by graduation
from McGill with the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1866. A year
or two thereafter was devoted to business but feeling that a
professional career would prove more congenial, he entered upon
the study of medicine and was graduated M. D., C. M., in 1872.
He then spent a year abroad, during which time he investigated
the methods of eminent physicians and surgeons of the old
world, after which he opened an office in Montreal. The usual
experiences of the professional man were his. He had to work
his way upward in face of competition with men who had long
been in the profession and had well established reputations.
The conscientious care which he gave to the cases entrusted to
him at length won him recognition and his practice grew until
it became one of the largest in the city. As time passed he
concentrated his efforts more largely upon obstetrical diseases
until he gained a wide and most enviable reputation in that
field, his opinions coming to be regarded as authority upon
many involved and intricate questions relating thereto. In 1883
he was appointed professor of obstetrics at McGill University,
succeeding the late Professor Duncan MacCallum, at the same time
taking charge of the University Maternity Hospital. Three years
later, however, owing to his growing practice, already extensive,
and his distaste for the drudgery of teaching, he resigned his
professorship. Yet, he was always intensely interested in McGill
and her welfare, and no function held by the medical department
was thought to be complete if Dr. Browne was absent. He was
not only thoroughly informed concerning his chosen calling
but possessed a fine literary mind and his broad reading made
him one of the best informed men on general literature among
the practitioners of medicine and surgery in Montreal. He was
a student of the classics, and all these things had influence
to make him a noble-minded man, whose life exemplified the high
principles which constituted the basis of his character. He
possessed an artistic taste that found expression in his intense
admiration of the beautiful in both art and nature. Moreover,
keen sympathy was one of his strongly marked traits and featured
as one of the elements of his success. He might well be called
“the beloved physician,” for his cheery presence as well as
his scientific skill brought comfort and assurance to many
households. He inspired and encouraged his patients and thus
assisted them far on the road to recovery.

In Montreal, in 1878, Dr. Browne was married to Miss Jane Labatt,
of London, Ontario, and their children were: H. Dalzell, of
Montreal; R. Russell, of Bassano, Alberta; Captain G. Sackville
Browne, of B Battery, Royal Canadian Horse Artillery, of
Kingston; and F. Dora.

Dr. Browne held membership with the Masonic fraternity and in
his life exemplified the beneficent spirit of the craft. He had
passed the sixty-second milestone on life’s journey when his
death occurred January 26, 1910. His eminent ability gained him
honor, his kindliness and consideration won him gratitude and
friendship; and thus it is that his memory is cherished and
remains as a blessed benediction to all who knew him.


THOMAS MCDOUGALL.

Important corporation and financial interests have felt
the stimulus of the enterprise, keen business insight and
intellectual force of Thomas McDougall, who is known in literary
as well as financial circles. He was born at Three Rivers, P. Q.,
May 21, 1843, a son of the late John McDougall, a merchant of
Three Rivers, who sat in the Canadian parliament from 1851 until
1854 and a brother of the late Hon. Justice McDougall of Aylmer,
P. Q. For many years Thomas McDougall was in the service of the
Quebec Bank and was agent of that institution in 1870. Later he
became manager at Montreal and in 1894 was made assistant general
manager, from which position he was advanced to that of general
manager in December of the same year. He continued actively in
control of the extensive and important financial interests that
came under his guidance until 1909, when he resigned but remained
a director of the bank. With him close reasoning has become
habitual, and he has therefore found ready solution for difficult
and involved financial problems. He was chairman of the clearing
house at Montreal and was active in the meeting of bankers,
convened to revise the banking act in 1890. In 1898-9 he was
president of the Canadian Bankers Association, which indicates
his place of prominence and influence in the moneyed circles of
the country. He is still a member of the advisory board of the
Scottish Union & National Insurance Company, is vice president
of the Shawinigan Water & Power Company and a director of the
Asbestos Corporation of Canada.

In many public connections outside the field of business and
finance his name has figured prominently and his labors have
been effectively and helpfully felt. In 1908 he was the general
treasurer of the Quebec tercentenary committee. He possesses
literary taste in high degree. He has written on banks, bankers
and banking, being the author of a well known article entitled,
T. Pomponius Atticus, a Roman Banker.

Mr. McDougall was married at Three Rivers, P. Q., to Miss Helen
Baptist, a daughter of the late George Baptist. His religious
connection is with the Presbyterian church and in club circles
he is well known as a member of the St. James Club of Montreal
and the Quebec Garrison Club of Quebec. His social qualities and
marked ability along many lines as well as his important business
interests have gained him the prominence which is today his.


JEAN BAPTISTE DAVID LEGARE.

Jean Baptiste David Legare, one of the most successful
real-estate promoters in the city of Montreal, was born in the
parish of Sillery, near Quebec, June 7, 1865. Fortune did not
smile on him for many years. His father having died when the son
was an infant of but three months, he was reared in the home
of his maternal grandfather, F. Cote, of St. Foy. While there
he acquired his elementary education and later attended the
academies at Sillery and Quebec. Manifesting laudable ambition
from early youth, at the age of eighteen years he began business
life as a clerk in the general store of Louis Bourget in Quebec.
Subsequently he was employed in the wholesale dry-goods houses of
P. Garneau and William McLimont & Sons in Quebec. Later he became
a representative of large grain and flour mills and also became
proprietor of a wine and vinegar manufactory in Quebec. Fate was
against him and he failed for seventy-two thousand dollars. This
would have utterly discouraged and disheartened many a man of
less resolute spirit, but an optimistic nature would not allow
Mr. Legare to acknowledge defeat and still held before him the
promise of later success. He then engaged in promoting various
undertakings in Quebec, but still the results were not such as
were desired.

In 1908 Mr. Legare came to Montreal and continued in the
promoting business, making a specialty of real estate. This
proved to be the turning point in the career of Mr. Legare and he
has since gradually but surely advanced to the goal of success.
In the past five years he has made over three hundred thousand
dollars and when the sum he had acquired was sufficient to cancel
all of his indebtedness he made a special journey to Quebec for
that purpose. Mr. Legare says that through all of the dark days,
when the storm clouds gathered about him that threatened disaster
and defeat, it was his wife’s encouragement and her faith in
his future that buoyed him up and made possible his ultimate
prosperity.

The principal companies which Mr. Legare has successfully
promoted during the past five years are: The Greater Montreal
Land Investment Company, Limited; and The Chateauguay Garden
City Company, Limited. He was also the promoter of the town
of Chateauguay. He is the owner of twenty-seven lakes on the
seigniory of Mille Isles and the water rights pertaining thereto.
A strong man physically and mentally, his optimistic temperament
makes him an ideal promoter. The various business enterprises
which he has promoted during his career have contributed a great
deal toward the development of the natural resources of the
Dominion.

[Illustration: JEAN BAPTISTE D. LEGARE]

Mr. Legare was married in Quebec, in 1891, to Alda Garneau,
daughter of Charles Garneau, ex-sergeant of arms of the Quebec
assembly. Upon the maternal side she is descended from the De
Villers and the De Lachevrotiere families, both being of the
noblest families of France. Mr. and Mrs. Legare are parents of a
daughter, Yvonne, who was married in 1913 to Dr. Rene Turcot, and
they reside in Quebec.


JOHN ALEXANDER GORDON, D. D.

One of the greatest individual forces in the promulgation of
Baptist doctrines in Canada, a man who has worked long and
earnestly in the promotion and spread of Baptist principles,
giving of his unusual talents, his great energy and tireless
labor to the cause, is Rev. John Alexander Gordon, for fourteen
years pastor of the First Baptist church in Montreal and now
the incumbent of the chair of pastoral theology at Brandon
Theological College, active in the work of the foreign missionary
societies and in the spread of temperance doctrines throughout
the Dominion.

Dr. Gordon is of Scottish ancestry and was born in Uigg,
Prince Edward Island. He acquired his early education in the
public and high schools of his native province and in Acadia
University, graduating with the degree of B. A., and acquired
his theological training in the Newton Theological Seminary in
Newton, Massachusetts. He was ordained to the Baptist ministry
in 1875 and has since been prominent and active in the work of
the Baptist church. He received the honorary degree of M. A. from
Acadia College in 1894 and the honorary degree of D. D. from the
same institution in 1904. Previous to his ordination he had been
engaged in the mercantile and commission business at Montague,
Prince Edward Island, and his first ministerial charge was as
pastor of the church in that community. He was afterward called
to Milton church, Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, where he remained from
1880 to 1885, after which he went to St. John, New Brunswick,
serving as pastor of the Leinster Street Baptist church, and from
there went to the First Baptist church, Charlottetown, Prince
Edward Island, remaining there until 1893, when he became pastor
of the Main Street Baptist church at Charlottetown. In 1899 he
was called to Montreal as minister of the First Baptist church
of this city, a position which he held until June, 1913, when he
accepted the chair of pastoral theology at Brandon Theological
College. Dr. Gordon has been found most earnest, zealous and
consecrated in his work and has been carried forward by the force
of his ability and the extent of his interests into important
relations with religious work of many kinds, notably that of the
local branch of the Lord’s Day Alliance, of which he is vice
president; the Prisoners’ Aid Association, of which he is also
vice president; the Grand Ligne Missionary Society, of which he
is president; and the Maritime Baptist Union. No individual has
done more powerful or effective work than he in the propagation
of Baptist doctrines or in the promotion of the church’s
interests for he was in 1906 appointed a member of the committee
on Church Union and two years later was one of the promoters and
a member of the committee which organized the Baptist Union. He
is a governor of Acadia University and is especially interested
in the work of the Foreign Mission Board of Ontario and Quebec,
of the British and Foreign Bible Society and the Moral and
Social Reform Council. He has written a “History of the First
Baptist Church of Montreal,” published in 1906, and in August,
1908, entered a vigorous protest against the celebration of high
mass on the Plains of Abraham as a part of the tercentenary
celebration.

Dr. Gordon married at Kingsborough, Prince Edward Island,
Margaret Ford, eldest daughter of the late John Ford, and to
them were born five sons: John, a resident of Charlottetown,
Prince Edward Island; Dr. Alvah H., of Montreal; Peter W., of
Calgary; Herbert F., of Winnipeg; and Walter H., city editor
of The Gazette of Montreal. Dr. Gordon has been a lifelong
temperance worker and reformer and has accomplished a great deal
of excellent work along this line, being uncompromising in his
attitude toward the liquor evil and battling against it always to
the extent of his great ability. In Montreal he is known as a man
whose actions conform closely to his principles and whose energy,
aggressiveness and untiring activity have been elements in the
accomplishment of great and lasting work.


CHARLES HENRY GOULD.

Charles Henry Gould, librarian of McGill University and president
of the American Library Association, 1908-09, is son of Joseph
G. and Abigail (DeWitt) Gould, the latter a daughter of the late
Jacob DeWitt, M. P., of Montreal. Born in Montreal on the 6th of
December, 1855, Charles H. Gould pursued his education in the
city schools through successive grades until he completed the
high school course, after which he entered McGill University
and was graduated B. A. with first rank honors in 1877, also
winning the Chapman medal in classics. Through the succeeding
scholastic year he devoted some time to post-graduate work in
physics. With the completion of his education he entered business
circles, in which he continued for several years. He afterward
took up the study of library economy and also spent some time in
travel before entering upon his present connection as librarian
of McGill University. For twenty years he has filled his present
position with eminent ability, having entered upon his duties in
September, 1893. He was made governor’s fellow in 1891. There is
no Canadian, perhaps, who has made a more thorough study of the
work and opportunities of the librarian than has Charles Henry
Gould, and realizing the deficiencies of many who undertake the
librarian’s task, he founded the McGill School for Librarians
in 1904. His prominence in his chosen field is indicated in his
election to the first vice presidency of the American Library
Association for 1907 and 1908 and his subsequent election to the
presidency for 1908-9. He has continued his labors at McGill
although offered the appointment of associate librarian of the
public library of Brooklyn, New York, in 1908, and that of
librarian of the Toronto public library. A fellow of the American
Library Institute, he belongs to the Champlain Society, was
president of the Bibliographical Society of America 1912-13
and is a member of other bodies which have for their basis the
promotion of scientific and literary knowledge. He is also a
member of the University Club, and the Canada Journal names him
as a loyal and valuable citizen.


DONAT BRODEUR, K. C.

Specializing in the field of civil and commercial law, Donat
Brodeur has gained recognition as a man capable of handling
intricate and involved legal problems. He is a native of
Montreal, born in March, 1863. His preliminary education
was acquired in St. Mary’s Jesuit College, with the later
professional course in Laval University, from which he was
graduated with the degree of B. C. L. with the class of 1887.
He was called to the bar at the beginning of the succeeding
year, and since that date he has practiced his profession
continuously in this city, now covering a period of a quarter
of a century. Each year has found him in a point in advance
of that which he occupied the previous year both in knowledge
and in the nature and importance of his practice. He is a well
known writer on legal subjects and a frequent contributor to
legal periodicals. He has also lectured on law topics before the
Canadian Accountants Association and the Chamber of Commerce. He
has ever been a student of his profession, constantly broadening
his knowledge by wide reading and research, and the care and
precision with which he prepares his cases constitute a strong
element in his success.

Attractive social qualities are the basis of his personal
popularity, making him a valued member of different social
organizations.


ROBERT FOWLER.

Robert Fowler, a merchant, was born in Montreal, November 17,
1851, and died in April, 1903. He was a son of Robert J. Fowler,
who was born in England in 1818 and was educated there. He was
brought up in the cathedral, having from the age of ten years
made his own way, becoming a choir boy in the church. In 1847 he
crossed the Atlantic going to Sorel, Canada, with Sir Benjamin
Levine and his staff, to teach the daughters music. In 1849 he
came to Montreal and was the first instructor of the city to
hold musicales. For forty years he was professor of music in the
normal school and at different times was organist in nearly all
of the churches of the city. He could play any instrument and was
recognized as the best instructor in music, by far, of his day.
He was also known to some extent as a composer and, in a word,
his musical talent was highly developed, while his professional
labors and influence were an element in promoting and cultivating
musical tastes and standards in the city. His was an artistic
nature. He wielded the painter’s brush with skill and he was,
moreover, a great naturalist. He took deep interest in the city’s
improvement and in all projects for civic betterment. He held
membership in Christ Church Cathedral, renting a pew there
for thirty-five years. His life thus became a potent force in
the artistic and moral progress of the city. He was married in
Weymouth, England, to Miss Annie Wadsworth and they became the
parents of five children, who reached adult age but only one,
Annie, is now living. The others were William, Susan, Robert and
John Henry. The death of the father occurred March 14, 1900, and
the mother passed away in 1911.

Robert Fowler supplemented a public-school course by study in the
normal school of Montreal and started in the business world as an
employe in Robertson’s dry-goods store, in which he acquainted
himself with every phase of the business and gained practical
experience which made him a successful merchant when he started
out on his own account.

He carefully saved his earnings until his frugality and economy
had brought him sufficient capital to become a partner in the
purchase of a stock of goods and the establishment of a store.
The firm of Fowler & Leishman was then organized for the conduct
of a retail dry-goods business and after a few years Mr. Fowler
was able to purchase his partner’s interest becoming sole
proprietor. He then devoted his entire time to the business and
enjoyed a liberal patronage, deriving a fair and gratifying
profit from his investment.

In Montreal in 1892, occurred the marriage of Robert Fowler and
Miss Amy Hamilton, a daughter of Robert Hamilton. Their three
children were Gordon, Wallace and Doris.

Mr. Fowler belonged to the Episcopal church and to its teachings
was loyal and faithful. He was a member of the Philharmonic Club.
He manifested the qualities of good citizenship and was devoted
to the welfare of his family, who, when he passed away in April,
1903, lost a loving and generous husband and father, while his
associates mourned the death of a loyal, faithful friend.


ALEXANDER COWPER HUTCHISON.

The history of Montreal’s architectural development would be
incomplete were there failure to make reference to Alexander
Cowper Hutchison, who, though in his seventy-seventh year, is yet
active in his profession in which he has long been a recognized
leader. His position today is that of consulting architect
and his utterances are accepted as words of wisdom by younger
representatives of the profession. Mr. Hutchison is one of the
old-time residents of Montreal. In fact, his entire life has
here been passed with the exception of a period of three years
spent in Ottawa, Ontario. He has seen this city develop from less
than forty thousand to a metropolitan center of over six hundred
thousand inhabitants.

Mr. Hutchison was born April 2, 1838, on the east side of Queen
Street between Wellington and William Streets, at Montreal
and many years later it fell to his lot in the course of his
business, to tear down the old house in which his birth had
occurred, this being done to make room for the Ives and Allen
warehouse which was erected upon that site. He comes of old
Scotch ancestry. His father was William Hutchison who came from
Ayrshire, Scotland. He was a builder in Montreal and afterward
was connected with the public works department. The mother,
whose maiden name was Helen Campbell Hall, was also a native of
Ayrshire, Scotland.

[Illustration: ALEXANDER C. HUTCHISON]

Such schools as existed in Montreal during his youthful days
provided Alexander Cowper Hutchison with his educational
opportunities. When but a boy of twelve years he began to learn
the stone-cutter’s trade under the direction of his father and
during the winter months for two or three years after he had
commenced work he attended the school conducted by the late C.
P. Watson. Subsequently he became a student in night school and
devoted all of his spare time to study, having come to a full
realization of the value of education. He possessed an inherited
talent for drawing and to develop his powers in that direction he
attended drawing classes that were conducted at the Mechanics’
Institute. He had made rapid progress from the very first as a
stone-cutter and displayed exceptional ability and skill in that
direction.

When scarcely out of his teens he was placed in charge of the
cut stone work on Christ Church Cathedral and some of the finest
stone work around the altar in that edifice was cut by him before
he had attained his majority. After the completion of that
building he was placed in charge of the cut stone work of the
eastern block of the parliament buildings at Ottawa during their
erection, his efforts in that connection continuing through the
year 1862. While engaged in that work he successfully conducted
classes in drawing which were largely attended. On the completion
of the government buildings he was called to Montreal to conduct
classes in connection with the Mechanics’ Institute, giving
instructions in architectural and geometric drawing. These
classes were afterward transferred to the Board of Arts and
Manufacturers and it was while connected therewith that he took
up the active practice of his profession which he followed for
many years. The beauty and utility which have always been salient
features of his designs are evident in many of the principal
buildings of Montreal.

Among the many structures designed by Mr. Hutchison independently
or in a partnership relation, and which stand as monuments to
his skill and ingenuity may be mentioned: Redpath Museum; McGill
University; Erskine church; Crescent Street Presbyterian church;
Warren Memorial church at Louisville, Kentucky; St. Andrew’s
church, at Westmount; Montreal high school and a number of other
school buildings; Royal Insurance building; London & Liverpool &
Globe Insurance Company’s building; Canadian Express Company’s
building; La Presse building; Queen’s Hall block; Henry Birks &
Sons’ building; Lord Strathcona’s residence; Macdonald College
buildings at Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, as well as a large
number of residences in Montreal and elsewhere together with many
warehouses, factories etc. One of the most recent expressions
of his architectural skill is seen in the Chalmers church at
Ottawa. He has not only practiced his profession as one of its
active followers, but has also gained renown as an educator in
his special field. He has lectured on ecclesiastical architecture
before the Presbyterian College of Montreal and he was one of
the original members, selected by its founder, the Marquis of
Lorne, of the Royal Canadian Academy of Art, and remained its
vice president until 1907, when he resigned. He has likewise
been honored with the presidency of the Quebec Architects’
Association, of which he was one of the founders, and thus
has come to him direct recognition of the honor and respect
entertained for him by the profession.

In political affairs Mr. Hutchison has taken a prominent part
but never as a party leader in the commonly accepted sense of
the term. With him men and measures have ever been considered
before partisanship, and the public welfare has ever stood
before personal aggrandizement. For years he was a member of
the council and was the second mayor of Cote St. Antoine, now
Westmount. His deep interest in and loyalty to the cause of
education was demonstrated in his eighteen years of service as a
school trustee. For a number of years he was a member of No. 5
Queen’s Company Volunteer Fire Brigade. He was likewise a member
of the First Company Rifles which was originally an independent
company and afterwards became the First Company of Prince of
Wales’ Regiment. He was also an officer in a rifle company in
Ottawa, while subsequently he became an officer of the Montreal
Engineers, retiring with the rank of lieutenant. He took part in
the Fenian raids of 1866 and 1870 and was accorded the Queen’s
medal.

Mr. Hutchison manifested great interest in church work. He
was formerly an elder in Erskine church, but afterward became
connected with St. Andrew’s church at Westmount, which had
previously been known as Melville church but differences of
opinion caused a split in the congregation and the portion
that left took the name with them. St. Andrew’s church was
then organized and remained on the old site, at the corner of
Stanton and Cote St. Antoine road. Mr. Hutchison was one of its
founders and since the organization of this church has taken
a most prominent part in its affairs. He has been an elder
for many years, was superintendent of the Sunday school for
thirty years and since 1886 has continuously served as session
clerk. He is a member of the board of managers of the Montreal
Presbyterian College and was a member of the national committee
of the Presbyterian Laymen’s Missionary movement in 1909. He has
likewise served as president of the Provincial Sunday School
Union of Quebec.

No good work done in the name of charity or religion has ever
sought his aid in vain, and his broad humanitarianism has been
manifest in his helpful support of many movements to benefit
the poor and needy or ameliorate the hard conditions of life
for the unfortunate. He is a life governor of the Montreal
General Hospital, of the Protestant Hospital for the Insane,
governor of the Western Hospital, and president of the Protestant
House of Industry and Refuge. He is an ex-president of the
Canadian branch of the Royal Caledonian Curling Club and of the
Montreal Caledonian Curling Club, being now honorary president
of the latter and an ex-president of the Heather Curling Club
of Westmount. He was a warm personal friend of the late Hon.
Alexander Mackenzie and he counts among his close associates
many of the most distinguished and eminent residents of Montreal
and the province. The Ottawa Free Press has termed him “one of
Montreal’s best known and most honored citizens.” He has long
occupied positions of distinction, not only by reason of what he
has accomplished along professional lines, but also owing to the
fact that he has made his life of signal service and benefit to
his fellowmen in his support of benevolent and religious plans
and projects. His life has ever been actuated by the highest
principles of honor and no citizen of Montreal is more worthy of
high regard.

On the 10th of July, 1862, in Cobourg, Ontario, Mr. Hutchison was
united in marriage to Miss Margaret Burnet of that place, and
they celebrated their golden wedding in July, 1912. Mr. and Mrs.
Hutchison have two sons and one daughter: William B., of the firm
of Hutchison, Wood & Miller, architects, who is married; Charles
Alexander, engaged in ornamental iron work, who is married
and has two children, Margaret and Lorne; and Helen, the wife
of George W. Wood of that firm. She has three sons: Alexander
Campbell, George Arthur and Douglas Fletcher.

Mr. Hutchison resides at No. 240 Kensington Avenue and has lived
in that immediate vicinity for nearly fifty years. During his
boyhood his parents resided on the north side of St. James Street
just a short distance west of Bleury Street which was then one of
the attractive residential sections of the city and Mr. Hutchison
relates some highly interesting incidents of those early days.

In 1865 when he took up his residence in what is now Westmount,
that district was supposed to be far out in the country. In
fact, the nearest residence, other than homes of farmers, was
on Dorchester West near what is now Greene Street. While Mr.
Hutchison has passed the seventy-sixth milestone upon life’s
journey, he is a well preserved man, active in mind and body.
Regular in his habits, he has never tasted intoxicating liquors
or used tobacco in any form. His great vitality has enabled him
to withstand three very serious operations since reaching the
age of seventy years and his complete recovery has attracted the
attention of members of the medical profession. He is a splendid
type of a high-minded gentleman of the old school, whose natural
politeness and courtesy are in evidence at all times.


DAVID W. CAMPBELL.

David W. Campbell, prominently connected with marine
transportation interests, is now general agent in Canada for the
Elder-Dempster Company in the South African and Mexican service.
He was born in Montreal in 1861, a son of the late John and Sarah
(Evans) Campbell, of this city. His youthful days were spent in
his parents’ home and his education was completed in the Montreal
high school. He comes of Scotch ancestry and in his career has
manifested many of the sterling traits characteristic of the land
of the heather. His initial step in business was made in the
service of Thompson, Murray & Company, then managing agents of
the Beaver line of steamships in Canada. Fidelity, industry and
capability won him promotion from time to time and after twenty
years’ continuous connection with the company he was appointed
to the position of general manager in 1895. While acting in
that capacity he was the first to establish a direct steamship
service during the winter months to a Canadian port--that of St.
John, New Brunswick. It was through his instrumentality that
the vessels of the Beaver line were sold to the Elder-Dempster
Company in 1898 and two years later, or in 1900, he became
Canadian manager for the latter company. His efficiency in the
field of steamship service management led to his selection, in
1903, for the position of general superintendent of the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company’s Atlantic fleet of steamers at Montreal,
in which position he remained until June, 1905, when he resigned
in order to take control for Canada of the interests of the
Elder-Dempster Company in connection with the South African and
Mexican service. He subsequently became general agent in Canada
for the same company, and his efforts have greatly furthered
its interests. He readily recognizes the possibilities of a
situation, utilizes the opportunities that are presented and
accomplishes substantial and gratifying results. He is a director
of several shipping companies and is on the board of the Montreal
Sailors’ Institute and the Shipping Federation of Canada, all
of which are more or less directly connected with the line of
business in which he has so long been engaged. Moreover, he has
done much to popularize the St. Lawrence route. He is serving on
the executive committee of the Canadian Shipping Federation, and
his long experience with maritime interests well qualifies him
to speak authoritatively upon matters with which the federation
deals.

Mr. Campbell has for some years been a member of the Montreal
Board of Trade, in 1910 was elected one of its councillors and in
1914 a vice president. He is also Cuban consul at Montreal.

In November, 1900, Mr. Campbell married Miss Emily Maud Baird, a
daughter of the late H. N. Baird of Toronto. They hold membership
in the Presbyterian church, and Mr. Campbell belongs to the St.
James Club. He favors free trade with the Empire and has been a
close student of many political situations and questions having
to do with the welfare and progress of the Dominion. His opinions
upon such questions are never lightly valued, for experience has
developed in him sound judgment and keen discrimination.


LOUIS DUFOUR DIT LATOUR.

Louis Dufour dit Latour, member of the real-estate firm of Latour
& Guindon, with offices in the Versailles building, Montreal,
was born in this city, June 15, 1867, a son of François Xavier
Latour dit Dufour of Lavaltrie, P. Q., where he followed farming,
and of Elizabeth (Prud’homme) Latour of St. Sulpice, P. Q. His
great-grandfather was Michel Dufour dit Latour, a church builder,
and his great-grandmother was Charlotte Du Moulin from France.

In the acquirement of his education Louis Dufour dit Latour
attended the College of Chambly--the Brethren of Christian
School, pursuing a commercial course. His early experience in
business lines came to him as office boy with the Thomas Davidson
Manufacturing Company, tinware and granite ware manufacturers
of Montreal. He was in the employ of the company for twenty-six
years, gradually working his way upward as his developing
powers and ability prepared him for further activities and
responsibilities. He served successively as custom house clerk,
cashier, bookkeeper and as manager of the Montreal branch of
the business, continuing in that position of responsibility for
twelve years. No higher testimonial of his business integrity,
enterprise and fidelity could be given than the fact that he
remained with one company for over a quarter of a century. He
left them in 1909 to open a real-estate office in connection
with J. M. Guindon, a hardware merchant of Montreal, under the
firm style of Latour & Guindon at No. 1202 Mount Royal East
Street, where they remained from 1909 until 1913. They then
transferred their business to No. 52 St. James Street, retaining
the old office, however, as a branch. In May, 1914, the offices
were removed to the new Versailles building on St. James Street.

[Illustration: L. D. LATOUR]

On the 28th of May, 1888, in Montreal, Mr. Latour was united
in marriage to Miss Marie Joseph Leblanc, a daughter of
Alphonse Leblanc and Aveline Amirault of L’Epiphanie, P. Q. Her
grandfather was a pioneer of L’Epiphanie. Mr. and Mrs. Latour
have three children: Lydia, the wife of Eugene Brissette, who is
with La Patrie Publishing Company; René, a hardware merchant of
Montreal; and Ernest, who holds a responsible position with The
Mark Fisher Sons & Company, Limited.

The religious faith of the family is that of the Roman Catholic
church, and the political allegiance of Mr. Latour is given to
the conservative party. That he is today one of the successful
real-estate brokers of the city is attributable entirely to his
own labors and his laudable ambition. Step by step he has worked
his way upward, the trend of his orderly progression being easily
discernible.


REV. NATHAN GORDON.

A man of deep learning, broad knowledge and scholarly
attainments, of force, experience and capacity, Rev. Nathan
Gordon has become known as one of the most able educators in
Quebec province, and as one of the successful and consecrated
workers among the Jewish people of Montreal. He was born in
Odessa, Russia, and took his arts course in the Cincinnati
University, from which he was graduated, B. A., in 1906. He
is also a graduate of the Hebrew Union Theological College of
that city and in 1909 received the degree of M. A. from McGill
University.

Mr. Gordon came to Montreal in 1906, having been appointed in
September of that year Rabbi of Temple Emmanu-El, and since that
time he has accomplished a great deal of earnest and zealous
work among the people of his congregation, who recognize him as
a sincere, upright and God-fearing man. The church property is
valued at one hundred thousand dollars, and the business affairs
connected with its administration are ably conducted, Mr. Gordon
assisting his associates by his executive skill and sound and
practical judgment. Combining religious zeal with the ability
necessary to make it effective among his people, he has indeed
been a force for good at Temple Emmanu-El and an able propagator
as well as a conserver of the doctrines in which he believes.

A scholar, a deep thinker and a broadly educated man, Mr. Gordon
has long been an ardent student of Oriental languages and
literature and has paid particular attention to the language
of his own race, in which he is thoroughly proficient. In 1909
he was appointed lecturer on rabbinical and mediæval Jewish
literature and instructor in Semitic languages at McGill
University and in this position has done a great deal to promote
a more general interest in these subjects and a more widespread
knowledge of the customs, language and traditions of the Jews. An
ardent champion of his race and an upholder of its creed, a foe
to the injustices and wrongs which have continually oppressed it,
he has supported the cause of the Hebrew people on every occasion
and one of the most eloquent and telling appeals on behalf of
the nationalization of the Plains of Abraham came from him. The
people of Temple Emmanu-El are fortunate in having at their
head a man so fearless in conviction, so able in argument, so
uncompromising in support of his professed beliefs, and the city
of Montreal is fortunate also, having in Rabbi Gordon an upright,
public-spirited and loyal citizen.


EDOUARD CHOLETTE.

Edouard Cholette, a member of the notarial profession of
Montreal, is a representative of one of the oldest French
families of the city, tracing his ancestry back to Sebastian
Cholette, who was born in 1679 and was married in Montreal on the
19th of October, 1705, to Miss Anne Hard. They became the parents
of a large family. Edouard Cholette, born in Montreal on the 3d
of April, 1880, is a son of L. E. A. and Marie Antoinette (Le
Sieur) Cholette, and in the acquirement of his education attended
St. Mary’s College, from which he was graduated in June, 1899.
He completed a course in Laval University in June, 1903, winning
the Bachelor of Arts degree for work done in the classical course
and the Master of Laws degree, indicative of his preparation for
the profession which he now follows. Since his graduation he has
practiced in Montreal as a notary public and has been accorded
liberal support.

In religious faith Mr. Cholette is a Roman Catholic. He is well
known socially in the city where his entire life has been spent
and is a valued member of the Canadian and St. Denis Clubs.


CARL RIORDON.

As vice president and managing director of the Riordon Pulp
& Paper Company, Ltd., Carl Riordon occupies an important
position in the commercial life of the city. He was born June
3, 1876, at St. Catharines, Ontario, and is a son of Charles
and Edith (Ellis) Riordon. Carl Riordon was educated at Upper
Canada College, Bishop Ridley College and Toronto University,
where he took the degree of B. A. in 1896. He entered business
fields in the Merritton mill, a property of the Riordon Paper
Mills in St. Catharines, becoming connected with the sulphite
department. He did work in the various departments of the concern
and subsequently took charge of the repairs which were made on
the Hawkesbury mill, of which he later became superintendent. In
1902 he returned to the Merritton mill in the capacity of manager
and in 1906 was made general manager of the Riordon Paper Mills,
which concern absorbed the business of G. H. Perley & Company in
1910, the firm adopting the name of the Riordon Paper Company and
establishing headquarters at Montreal. In 1912 the Riordon Pulp
& Paper Company took over the business of the former company.
It is one of the foremost concerns of its kind in the Dominion.
Mr. Riordon is vice president and managing director and is also
director of The Mail Printing Company of Toronto and the Niagara
Falls Suspension Bridge Company.

Mr. Riordon has an interesting military record to his credit,
being gazetted second lieutenant in the Nineteenth St. Catharines
Infantry Regiment in 1898. He was made captain in the following
year and in 1901 became quartermaster with the honorary rank of
captain. For some time he led B Company of that regiment. He
retired in 1904.

Carl Riordon married on June 23, 1900, Miss Amy Louise Paterson,
a daughter of the late Rev. Charles Paterson, of Port Hope,
Ontario. To this union have been born five children: Charles
Harold, Edith Amy, John Eric Benson, Mary Kathleen and Peter
Hamilton.

In his religious faith Mr. Riordon is an Anglican. He is
prominent in clubdom, being a member of the Mount Royal, the St.
James, the University and the Hunt Clubs of Montreal; the Toronto
Club of Toronto; and the British Empire Club of London, England.
He also is a member of the Alpha Delta Phi Club of New York city.
His political views incline him toward the conservative party and
although his commercial interests are so extensive as to prevent
active participation in governmental affairs, he shows great
interest in matters of public importance. In the world of paper
making his name is well known and he is considered one of the
foremost authorities along that line. At a comparatively early
age he has attained a position of importance and distinction.
He is shrewd, able, energetic and technically highly trained
and his success therefore is but natural, being typical of the
younger Canadian business men of the most modern and progressive
tendencies.


LAWRENCE LEOPOLD HENDERSON.

Among the successful business men of Montreal is Lawrence Leopold
Henderson, general manager of the Montreal Transportation
Company. He was born in Kingston, Ontario, March 5, 1866, a son
of Peter Robertson and Henrietta Jane (Sweetland) Henderson, the
former a merchant of Kingston, born in Aberdeen, Scotland, and
the latter of English ancestry. The father died in 1895 and the
mother in 1896.

Lawrence L. Henderson received his education in private schools
and in the collegiate institute at Kingston. In 1884, at the age
of eighteen, he entered the employ of the Montreal Transportation
Company as a clerk. Devoting himself assiduously to the work at
hand, he was promoted from position to position in the various
departments of the institution until he became in 1896 agent at
Kingston. In January, 1909, he was made general manager and at
that time left Kingston for Montreal, having since occupied this
important position. Mr. Henderson is a director of the National
Real-Estate and Investment Company of Montreal, the Montreal
Transportation Company, the Montreal Dry Docks and Ship Repairing
Company, the Rothesay Realty Company, and president of the
Dominion Marine Association. He is also a member of the Montreal
Board of Trade.

While in Kingston Mr. Henderson was a member of the city council
from 1907 to 1908 and of the school board from 1904 to 1906. He
also served on the executive of the Dominion Marine Association.
He was prominent as a member of the Board of Trade of Kingston
and upon leaving that town was presented with a handsome silver
salver on behalf of the board and with a silver loving cup by the
employes of the company.

He is a member of the Canada Club, the Engineers Club, the St.
George Snowshoe Club, the Canadian Club of Montreal, the Country
Club of Montreal, the Frontenac Club of Kingston, the Kingston
Curling Club, and the Heather Club of Westmount.

On April 30, 1890, Mr. Henderson was married to Miss Jennie Lena
Spencer, a daughter of the late L. B. Spencer, of Kingston. Their
children are Lawrence Spencer, Mabel Spencer, Ruth Sweetland,
Kenneth Robertson, Florence Lillian and Jean Lewis.


ALBERT PIERRE FRIGON.

Various corporate interests have felt the stimulus of the
cooperation and enterprising spirit of Albert Pierre Frigon,
who today stands in a prominent place on the stage of financial
activity in Montreal, his native city. He was born on the 14th
of June, 1872, a son of Benjamin and Philomene (Cassan) Frigon,
the former a general contractor for more than thirty years. Both
he and his wife are still living. The ancestors of the family
were all from France and the genealogy can be traced back to the
fifteenth century.

Albert P. Frigon was educated in the Catholic commissioner’s
school, Archambault’s, where he was graduated with the class
of 1888. Crossing the threshold of business life, he became
bookkeeper for P. P. Mailloux, a hardware merchant on St. Paul
Street in Montreal, with whom he remained for thirteen years, his
capability and fidelity being attested by his long connection
with the house. He resigned in 1901 to become business and
financial manager for the Seminary of St. Sulpice of Montreal
and in the intervening years to the present his activities
have constantly broadened in scope and importance. He is now a
controlling figure in various corporate interests and has large
investments in others. At the present writing he is a member of
the firm of St. Cyr, Gonthier & Frigon, bankers and brokers,
is vice president of Viauville Lands, Ltd., president of the
Star Realty Company, president of the Compagnie Immobilière
d’Outre-Mer, president of the Canadian Siegwart Beam Company
of Three Rivers, vice president of the New Ontario Oil &
Gas Company, Ltd., president of the Société de Construction
Lafontaine, president of the executive board of the General
Animals Insurance Company, president l’Immobilière du Canada,
vice president of the France-Canada Company, president of St.
Francis-Valley Railway Company and president of the St. Francis
Construction Company. This recital of his connections indicates
clearly the breadth of his interests and of his capabilities. In
various companies he is bending his energies to administrative
direction and executive control and he possesses notable power
in unifying and coordinating seemingly diverse elements into a
harmonious and resultant whole. His opinion upon complex and
involved financial problems is ever accepted with respect and
consideration by those well qualified to judge thereof. He is
the vice president of the General Trust Company of Canada,
president of Comité de Surveillance Caisse Nationale d’Economie
and is a member of the board of La Chambre de Commerce of
Montreal.

[Illustration: ALBERT P. FRIGON]

Mr. Frigon’s activities also extend to various public interests
which have no bearing upon his individual prosperity but arise
from a deep interest in the general welfare. He votes with
the liberal party but takes no active part in politics. He is
a gouverneur à vie de l’Hôpital Notre Dame and he belongs to
Société St. Jean Baptiste. He is also a Knight of Columbus and
one of the most sincere, earnest and enthusiastic workers of the
order, in which he has held a number of offices. His religious
faith is indicated in the fact that he is a past president of a
number of Roman Catholic societies. Along more strictly social
lines he is connected with the St. Denis and Canadian Clubs. Of
the former he is a life member and has also been a life member
since 1901 of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association. He is
an honorary member of the Sixty-fifth Regiment. His official
municipal service has been that of mayor of the new village of
Sault au Récollet, to which office he was called in February,
1910, and as school commissioner of the same village, to which
position he was chosen in August, 1913.

On the 18th of April, 1898, in Montreal, Mr. Frigon was married
to Miss Malvina Perreault, a daughter of Jérémie and Victoria
(Saint Dizier) Perreault, both of whom are now deceased. Her
father was for a term of years alderman of the city of Montreal
and president of l’Association St. Jean Baptiste of Montreal. For
thirty years he conducted business here as a dry-goods merchant.
Mr. and Mrs. Frigon are the parents of two children: Jeanne, born
in Montreal on the 12th of February, 1899; and Germaine, on the
12th of November, 1900.

Mr. Frigon is a most enthusiastic supporter of his native city,
in which his entire life has been passed, taking keen interest in
its progress and having firm belief in the great future. He has
been an untiring worker for the construction of the Georgian Bay
canal, acting as president of the special commission appointed
by the Chamber of Commerce of Montreal to take charge of that
project. In all of his public as well as his private connections
he has been a man of action rather than of theory, formulating
his plans carefully and carrying them forward to successful
termination.


HUGH MACKAY.

On the list of Montreal’s lawyers appears the name of Hugh
Mackay, who in 1913, was created king’s counsel. His practice
covers a period of fourteen years, in which he has made
continuous advancement. He was born in Montreal in 1875, a son
of the Hon. Robert Mackay. His early educational opportunities
were supplemented by a course in McGill, where he was graduated
in 1900, with the B. C. L. degree. He has since practiced as
an advocate in his native city, and his professional career
has been one of growing success, a liberal and distinctively
representative clientage being now accorded him.

Mr. Mackay was married in 1903 in Montreal to Miss Isabel, a
daughter of J. N. Greenshield, K. C.

Mr. Mackay’s military history covers service as a captain of
the Royal Highlanders, and he is widely and favorably known in
military, professional and social circles, having many warm
friends in this city where his entire life has been passed.


ANDRE ODORIE RONDEAU.

Capable, earnest and conscientious, and well versed in the
knowledge of the law, André Odorie Rondeau enjoys a large
practice, especially among the French citizenship of Montreal,
ably representing valuable French interests in the local courts.
A man of sound judgment and logical reasoning, he readily
discerns the moving factor in any legal situation and presents
his views and conclusions so concisely that he seldom fails to
convince court or jury. He is gifted with all the qualities of
which a lawyer may be proud and has a deep insight into human
nature, understanding the springs of human conduct, which
qualities assist him in his work. As the years have passed he
has come more and more to the fore in his profession and is now
recognized as an authority upon many subjects of the law.

Born at St. Marcel, in the county of Richelieu, on the 8th of
June, 1876, André O. Rondeau is the son of Louis Rondeau, a
successful agriculturist, who was born in the county of Berthier,
and Lucie (Ouellette) Rondeau, a daughter of Godefroy Ouellette,
born in St. Ours, in the county of Richelieu. Both parents are
highly respected in their locality. The earliest record of the
Rondeau family goes back to one Pierre Rondeau, a son of Jean,
who married Catherine Verrier on September 30, 1669, at Ste.
Famille, and had a large family. Another of these early records
mentions Jacques Rondeau, born in 1663, who married Françoise
Beaudry at Trois Rivières on November 6, 1691, and had a family
of seven children.

André O. Rondeau after acquiring his preliminary education
attended a commercial college at St. Aimé and the preparatory
seminary of Ste. Marie de Monnoir, from which he obtained his
bachelor’s degree. He received his law diploma from Laval
University of Montreal, after having studied for two years at
St. Hyacinthe under the supervision of Blanchet & Chicoine,
well known barristers. Since Mr. Rondeau has joined the legal
fraternity of Montreal he has made great strides towards
success, having left the ranks of the many and joined those
of the successful few. He is skillful in the presentation
of his evidence, shows marked ability in cross-examination,
persuasiveness before the jury and has a strong grasp of every
feature of the case in hand. While his learning never intrudes
itself when uncalled for and he makes no display thereof, it
comes into requisition when wanted. He is a man who exemplifies
in his conduct the lofty ideals of his nation and noble calling
and he honors his profession by paying it honor and by his
adherence to the solid virtues and enlightened principles
underlying the law. It is his ambition to make his native talent
subserve the demands of the social and business conditions of the
day and he stands today as a splendid representative of a lawyer
to whom personal prosperity is secondary in importance to the
public welfare and less vital than many other elements which go
to make up human existence.

On June 29, 1908, at Montreal, at the church of St. Jacques, Mr.
Rondeau was united in marriage to Miss Rose Blanche Trudeau, a
daughter of Louis Napoléon Trudeau, a well known dentist. The
religious affiliations of Mr. and Mrs. Rondeau are with the
Catholic church. In his political views he was during his earlier
years a liberal but since 1906 has endorsed the nationalist
movement as he is in sympathy with their ideas. Outside of his
profession he has had important interests and is the builder
of the Boulevard Trudeau and Rondeau, in the Prairie River
district, which leads through lots Nos. 16 and 17. He was one
of the founders and also one of the first directors of La Cie
Zootechnique de Labelle, Limitée, at Macaza, P. Q., which has for
its purpose the raising of fur-bearing animals. Mr. Rondeau is
highly respected in Montreal as an able lawyer and as a citizen
of public worth and is especially popular and influential with
the French, of which race he is an able representative in this
city.


SAMUEL COTTINGHAM STEVENSON.

There was no man to whom the success of Canadian expositions
and exhibitions was more largely attributable than to Samuel C.
Stevenson, who as a commissioner, represented his province and
country in connection with a number of leading affairs of this
kind on the continent. He was born in Montreal in 1848 and came
of Scotch ancestry, being a son of James Stevenson, a native of
Scotland, who after his arrival in Canada was identified with
shipping interests, owning a number of boats. His wife was, in
her maidenhood, Miss Elizabeth Cottingham.

Their son, Samuel C. Stevenson, pursued a high-school course and
in 1872 was granted his Bachelor of Arts degree at McGill. He
was assistant secretary to the first large provincial exhibition
and was identified with all the expositions of the province from
that time until his death. When the first one was held at Mile
End, he was given entire charge of the industrial department. In
1876 he was appointed a commissioner of the province of Quebec
to the great Centennial Exposition held in Philadelphia and in
1877 when a permanent exposition committee was appointed for the
province, he was made its secretary for the industrial department
and held that position until the organization of the Montreal
Exposition Company in 1889. He was chief organizer and manager
of all the important expositions that were held in Montreal from
1886 until his demise and he represented the Canadian interests
as commissioner for the province of Quebec at the Colonial
and Industrial Exhibition in London, in 1886. In 1892 he was
appointed a member and secretary of the provincial commission
in connection with the World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago
and was secretary of the council of arts and manufacture of the
province of Quebec. His long experience enabled him to know
adequately just what was most attractive for exhibition purposes
and how to assemble such, and the success of Canada’s exhibits,
both provincial and at the international expositions in the
United States, was due in large measure to his efforts. He was a
corresponding member of the Industrial Education Association of
New York and a director of the Great Northern Railway of Canada.

Mr. Stevenson’s military experience began in his youth. When a
boy he belonged to the High School Cadets and afterward joined
the Victoria Rifles, going to the front with his regiment
at the time of the Fenian raid of 1866. Later he received a
commission in the Prince of Wales regiment and was a subaltern
in the company of that corps which was sent to the relief of the
force that engaged the Fenians at Eccles Hill. He remained in
the corps until 1881, when he retired with the rank of major.
Mr. Stevenson’s interests and activities aside from those
already indicated were manifest from his membership in the Art
Association and in the Crescent Street church.

At Saugerties, New York, in 1878 Mr. Stevenson was married to
Mrs. Gertrude (Caldwell) Bennett, a representative of a southern
family, that lived in Virginia until the time of the Civil war
and then removed to New York. Mr. and Mrs. Stevenson had three
children: James Corliss; Elizabeth Lois, the wife of Herbert
Yuile; and Gladys Arnold, the wife of J. Hal Pangman.

Such is the record of Samuel C. Stevenson, who passed away
January 2, 1898. As a public-spirited citizen he was widely
known. None questioned his fidelity. He responded to every appeal
when it was needed for the benefit of the general good; to
build up rather than to destroy was his policy and he attacked
everything with a contagious enthusiasm.


FARQUHAR ROBERTSON.

The nature and variety of his interests and activities at once
place Farquhar Robertson among those citizens whose lives
constitute a most useful and serviceable force in bringing about
modern day conditions, progress and prosperity. While he is well
known as a business man, he has at the same time been a close
student of the sociological, economic and political questions of
the day, and has been actively allied with many movements seeking
the betterment of conditions for the benefit of the individual
physically, intellectually and morally. He has also been
connected with many projects that promote the municipal welfare,
and thus his life has come to be one of great usefulness in his
adopted city. A native of Ontario, he was born April 14, 1850,
at North Branch, Glengarry, a son of Hugh and Flora (McLennan)
Robertson and a brother of Lieutenant Colonel D. M. Robertson,
Toronto, Ontario. His education was acquired in his native county
and since entering upon his business career, he has largely given
his attention to the coal trade. In business affairs he carries
forward to successful completion what he undertakes, and his well
formulated plans are productive of far-reaching and beneficial
results.

His activities along other lines have been equally broad and
beneficial. He is identified with many movements which seek
to meet and improve modern conditions, and to this end he is
serving as a director of the Parks and Playgrounds Association,
and is vice president of the Montreal City Improvement League.
He was one of the promoters of the Montreal Typhoid Emergency
Hospital, and is one of the managing committee of the Montreal
General Hospital, a member of the committee of management of
Royal Edward Institute, and vice president of Victorian Order
of Nurses. Mr. Robertson is president of the firm of Farquhar
Robertson, Limited, and director of Merchants Bank of Canada,
Montreal Transportation Company, Canada Cement Company and the
Prudential Trust Company. He was president of the Montreal Board
of Trade in 1909, and it was largely due to his efforts during
his term of office, that a change in civic administration took
place, to a board of commissioners.

[Illustration: FARQUHAR ROBERTSON]

Mr. Robertson represented St. Andrew’s ward in the Montreal city
council for six years and was the council’s representative on the
Protestant board of school commissioners for the same period.

Mr. Robertson married Miss Flora Craig, daughter of the late
James Craig, M. P. P., Glengarry. They reside at No. 30 Ontario
Avenue, Montreal. They are Presbyterians in religion.

While not an office seeker in politics (in which he is a
conservative), in the usually accepted sense of the term, he is
deeply interested in all that pertains to the public welfare, and
the present government thought fit to appoint him as one of the
present harbor commission.

Mr. Robertson is president of the St. Andrew’s Society of
Montreal. He is well known in club circles, being a member of St.
James, Montreal, Montreal Hunt and Outremont Golf Clubs, and life
member of The Caledonian Society and Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association. His recreation is devoted to curling and farming.


JOHN ALLAN.

John Allan was a splendid example of what industry and
determination will accomplish for a man. Born in Strathmiglo,
Scotland, on the 28th of November, 1863, a son of David
and Christian (Roy) Allan, he became one of the successful
merchants of Montreal, dealing in clothing, hats, caps and men’s
furnishings. He was educated in the schools of his native country
and when eighteen years of age crossed the Atlantic to Canada,
making his way to Montreal, where he entered the employ of Henry
Morgan & Company. After some time spent with that house he joined
his brother, Robert Allan, who was engaged in the bottling of
ginger ale. Subsequently he embarked in business on his own
account on Craig Street in a small way, having a limited line of
clothing, hats, caps and men’s furnishings. He closely applied
himself to the development of the trade and in that connection
steadily worked his way upward, his patronage increasing as the
years went by until he won a substantial measure of success. He
was truly a self-made man, having been both the architect and
builder of his own fortunes and his record proved what may be
accomplished when determination and energy point out the way.

Mr. Allan was married in Cupar, Scotland, in 1894, to Maria
Isabella Hood, a native of that place and a daughter of Robert
and Agnes (Moncrief) Hood, and they became parents of five
children: John Roy, Agnes Isabelle, Robert Bruce, Douglas Hood
and Malcolm Moncrief. Mr. Allan enjoyed curling as a recreation
and his more serious interests were represented in membership in
the Masonic fraternity and in Knox church. He was a member of
the Young Men’s Christian Association for many years and took
a deep interest in its affairs. His death occurred January 11,
1912, and thus was ended a life of activity and usefulness. He
had made good use of his time and opportunities and had proved
that prosperity and an honored name may be gained simultaneously.


REV. JOSEPH LEONIDAS DESJARDINS.

Rev. Joseph Léonidas Desjardins, secretary general of Laval
University at Montreal since September 14, 1907, was born at Ste.
Thérèse, in the county of Terrebonne, on the 27th of November,
1880, a son of Joseph and Odile (Boileau) Desjardins, the former
of whom followed agricultural pursuits. The son pursued his early
studies in the Seminary of Ste. Thérèse and in the Grand Seminary
of Montreal. His determination to prepare for the priesthood,
followed by a thorough course of study, led to his ordination
by Monsignor P. La Rocque on the 3d of July, 1904. His time and
energies have ever since been devoted to educational service
save for a period which he devoted to further study. Following
his ordination he became a professor in the Seminary of Ste.
Thérèse, where he remained during 1904 and 1905. The following
year he went abroad for further study in Rome, where he remained
from 1905 until 1907, winning the degree of Doctor of Theology.
Following his return to the new world he entered again upon
active connection with educational interests as secretary general
of Laval University at Montreal, being appointed to his present
position on the 14th of September, 1907. In his life work mental
and moral instruction go hand in hand, and his efforts constitute
an important element not only in the upbuilding of character
among individual students but also in the extension of Catholic
teachings and influence.


HIRSCH COHEN.

Hirsch Cohen, most actively identified with the educational and
moral progress of the Jewish people in Montreal, may point with
justifiable pride to various schools and synagogues which have
been established through his instrumentality. A Russian by birth,
his natal day was in April, 1863, his parents being Hircom and
Sarah Cohen, both of whom have now passed away, the latter dying
in 1896 and the former in 1911 at a ripe old age, being over
ninety years old. Liberal educational advantages constituted the
foundation for the important and far-reaching life work of Hirsch
Cohen who was educated in a Hebrew college in Russia. The year
1890 witnessed his arrival in Montreal, since which time he has
been active in promoting work among the people of his own faith.
He has established eight synagogues, including one in Lachine
and one in the city of Quebec. At that period the people of
his faith could not stand the regular tithing system and there
were only a few small synagogues to carry on the work among the
Hebrew people. Prosperity, however, has come to many and a fair
degree of success to others and as they have prospered they have
contributed to the work of intellectual and moral progress with a
result that there are today a number of large congregations and
various smaller ones, each an active force in promoting the moral
development of the Hebrew people. Mr. Cohen has been a leader in
this work and he is also a director on the school board of the
Baron de Hirsch Institute. For the past seven years he has been
acting as chaplain for the Jewish prisoners in the province of
Quebec. He is chairman of various Hebrew schools in the city and
has been practically the founder of them all and in the meantime
has established places of study where adult Hebrews can acquaint
themselves with various lines of knowledge. He has founded three
different synagogues in Montreal since his arrival and another
important branch of his work has been the care which he has
given to newcomers during the periods of largest immigrations
to Canada among the Hebrew people. Moreover, he has taken a
most active and helpful part in bringing about the amalgamation
of the charitable institutions of the Jewish people into a
coordinate whole. He has seemed to neglect no line of effort that
contributes to the welfare of people of his faith. It was through
his instrumentality that all Jewish slaughter houses were brought
under the required supervision. He was one of those who took part
in the organization of the Free Loan Association, and he was one
who aided in establishing the Jewish Daily Eagle, to the columns
of which he makes frequent and welcome contributions. He is one
of the officers in the Zionist movement and one of the officers
in the Association of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States and
Canada, in which he is also a member of the executive committee.

Mr. Cohen’s first wife was Miss Sarah First, whom he married in
1888, and their children were Mrs. Annie Presnau, Mary, Julius,
Ethel, Goldie and Lazarus. In 1913 he married Leah Nochumofsky.
It would be difficult to determine how important has been the
life work of Hirsch Cohen, for there is no standard whereby to
judge influence, especially when it is exerted along lines of
intellectual and moral progress. His worth, however, is widely
recognized, not only by those of his own faith, but also by the
Gentiles who respect him as a man and honor him for his loyalty
to his belief and for his great work in behalf of his cause.


HARRY BLOOMFIELD.

A prominent representative of the Jewish element in the
citizenship of Montreal is Harry Bloomfield, a partner in the
well known wholesale jewelry firm of Bloomfield Brothers. He is
largely regarded as a representative business man, enterprising,
progressive, alert and energetic. He was born in Montreal in
1879, a son of Baruch Bloomfield, a scholar and educator who
for many years resided in Montreal and enjoyed the respect of
all who knew him. It was in the schools of this city that Harry
Bloomfield pursued his education and after entering business
circles he traveled for the American Clock Company of New York
for five and a half years, in which he gained much valuable
experience concerning business methods and procedure. On the
expiration of that period he entered the employ of the Canadian
jewelry house of Pinfort & Company, whom he represented upon
the road as a traveling salesman for another period of five and
a half years. All during this time he was ambitious to engage in
business on his own account, and in 1904 he saw the realization
of his hopes, for in that year he was the organizer of the
firm of Bloomfield Brothers, wholesale jewelers. Through the
intervening period the business has steadily grown and developed
under the careful guidance and management of its proprietors who
are energetic, progressive young men, realizing and utilizing
their opportunities. They carry a large and carefully selected
line of jewelry, and their trade is growing year by year, having
already reached extensive and profitable proportions.

On the 7th of June, 1905, Mr. Bloomfield was united in marriage
to Miss Sadie Davies, a daughter of Morton Davies of New York,
and their children are Bernard, Louis, Dorothy and Florence.
Mr. Bloomfield has been somewhat active in connection with
civic affairs. He was made justice of the peace for the city
and district of Montreal, October 12, 1904, and he was twice a
candidate in St. Lawrence ward in conservative interests as M. P.
P.

He is identified with a number of social and fraternal
organizations, for beside being president of the Independent
Voters League he is a director of the Baron de Hirsch Institute,
a director of the Hebrew Sheltering Home, a director of the
Montefiore Club and president of the D’Israeli Conservative Club.
At the time of the ritual murder charge against Mendel Beiliss
six judges were appointed by the Jewish citizens to forward a
protest to the governor general and Mr. Bloomfield was appointed
as one of the judges. He is a high type of young Jewish manhood
in Montreal and is rapidly winning for himself an enviable
position in business circles.


JOHN BRADFORD MCCONNELL, M. D., D. C. L.

Dr. John Bradford McConnell, an able educator in the field of
medical science and actively engaged in hospital and private
practice, was born at Chatham, Quebec, August 28, 1851, a son of
the late Andrew and Martha Jane (Bradford) McConnell, of Lachute,
Quebec. In the acquirement of his education he became a student
at Dr. Wanless Academy at Carillon, Quebec, and ultimately
graduated from McGill University with the degrees of M. D., C.
M. in 1873. Still not content with the opportunities that had
already been his for preparation for the medical profession, he
went abroad and did post-graduate work in Berlin under Professor
Koch. From the outset his professional career has been marked
by advancement and constantly expanding powers have enabled him
to successfully control and check disease when others of less
thorough training or of minor devotion to the profession would
have failed. His high standing is indicated in the fact that
Bishop’s College of Lennoxville selected him for the honor of
receiving the D. C. L. degree in 1905. He has long been eminent
in the field of medical education and was vice president of the
College of Physicians and Surgeons, while for many years he
was a professor on the medical faculty of Bishop’s College. He
has successively occupied the chairs of professor of botany,
professor of materia medica, professor of pathology, professor of
medicine and of clinical medicine, and was vice dean for a number
of years and was acting dean in 1905, when the medical faculty
was amalgamated with McGill University, so that his name is
inseparably associated with Bishop’s College and the high rank it
has attained. Dr. McConnell has also been a member of the staff
of the Western Hospital since its establishment and is medical
examiner for the Aetna and the Mutual Life Insurance Companies.
He was for several years editor of the Canada Medical Record.
He has written extensively on medical subjects and his opinions
elicit attention, admiration and consideration whenever publicly
expressed.

[Illustration: DR. JOHN B. McCONNELL]

Aside from the strict path of the profession Dr. McConnell has
been active and is now a senator of the Wesleyan Theological
College of Montreal. He also has an interesting military chapter
in his life record, having from 1875 until 1884 served as
assistant surgeon of the First Prince of Wales Regiment. In 1875
he married Miss Theodora Lovell, daughter of the late Robert
Miller, of Montreal. Dr. McConnell is yet in the prime of life.
He has not reached the zenith of his powers, which are constantly
unfolding and developing. He keeps in the vanguard of those to
whom science is revealing its secrets as the result of careful
investigation and wide research, and the broader knowledge which
each year brings is familiar to him.


JOHN GEORGE ADAMI.

Dr. John George Adami, scientist, educationist and author whose
eminent position in his profession was indicated in his election
to the presidency of the Association of American Physicians in
1911, was born in Manchester, England, January 12, 1862, a son of
the late John George Adami of Manchester and Ashton-upon-Mersey,
Cheshire. The mother of Dr. Adami, who in her maidenhood was
Sarah Ann Ellis Leech, was a daughter of Thomas Leech of Urmston,
Lancashire, and a sister of the late Sir Bosdin Leech, one of the
founders of the Manchester Ship Canal, while another brother was
Professor Leech, a leading member of the staff of Owen’s College
and the Manchester Medical School.

Dr. Adami began his more advanced schooling when he entered
Owen’s College, Manchester, and in 1880 entered Christ’s
College, Cambridge, becoming a scholar of the same and in
1882 gaining a first class in the first part of the Natural
Science Tripos followed in 1884 by a first class in the second
part of the same tripos. Following upon this he spent eight
months in physiological research at Breslau, Germany, under the
distinguished physiologist Heidenhain. In 1885, Dr. Adami was
awarded the Darwin prize of his college, for original research.
The Master of Arts degree was conferred upon him in 1887, and
with the completion of the course of medicine at Manchester in
this year, he was appointed house physician at the Manchester
Royal Infirmary, following upon which he was called to Cambridge
to become demonstrator of pathology under Professor Roy.

In 1890, he was appointed to the John Lucas Walker studentship
of pathology in the University of Cambridge, and went to Paris
for bacteriological research in the Institute Pasteur, under
Professor Metchnikoff. He won his M. D. degree in 1891, and in
the same year was elected a fellow of Jesus College.

The following year he was called to Montreal, as professor of
pathology in McGill University, and his continued success in
research work, in practice and in the educational field, led to
various degrees and honors being conferred upon him. In 1898,
McGill conferred upon him the degrees of M. A. and M. B. Ad Eund.

The University of New Brunswick honored him with the LL. D.
degree in 1900, the University of Toronto conferring the same
degree in 1911, while in 1912 he received the Sc. D. of Trinity
College, Dublin. He had previously, in 1905, been elected a
fellow of the Royal Society. He is also a fellow of the Royal
Societies of Edinburgh and Canada. In February, 1914, the
Fothergillian medal of the Medical Society of London was awarded
to Dr. Adami for his “work on Pathology in its application to
practical medicine and surgery.” The Fothergillian gold medal was
first awarded in 1787 and now is given every third year.

It would be tautological in this connection to enter into any
series of statements showing him to be a man of scholarly
attainments, for this has been shadowed forth between the
lines of this review in the work that he has performed as an
investigator and in the honors which have been conferred upon him.

He is perhaps even better known in the field of authorship than
in educational circles. The work by which he is most widely known
is his “Principles of Pathology” in two volumes (the second in
connection with Professor A. G. Nicholls of McGill).

Dr. Adami has written various papers on pathological subjects
which have appeared in a number of the leading medical journals
in England and America and have also been translated into French.
His smaller text-book upon pathology written along with Dr. John
McCrae, is being translated into Chinese.

That his activities have not been solely in the path of his
profession are indicated by not a few addresses he has delivered
on biographical and literary subjects. He stands prominently with
those men of broad humanitarian principles and high scientific
attainment who are doing everything in their power to prevent
the spread of disease and educate the people to a knowledge of
preventive methods and sanitary conditions.

He presided at one of the meetings of the International
Tuberculosis Congress held in Washington in 1908, and was one
of the promoters of the Royal Edward Tuberculosis Institute in
1909. He was a member of the Royal Commission, of the province of
Quebec, re spread of tuberculosis in 1909, and in that same year
became president of the Canada Association for the Prevention
of Tuberculosis, being reelected for three years in succession.
In 1911 he was honored with election to the presidency of the
Association of American Physicians. He has been president of
the local Medico-Chirurgical Society and is a joint secretary
of the Victorian Order of Nurses. In 1899 he was president of
the Montreal branch of the British Medical Association and was
president of the pathological section of that organization at
the meeting in Toronto in 1905. He was a vice president of the
section of pathology at the International Congress of Medicine,
London, 1913.

He has been offered many prominent positions in the educational
field both in England and the United States, but has preferred
to remain in Montreal, recognizing that he has a broad field of
labor in this city.

His teaching ranks him as one of the foremost educators of the
land, and in the class room he enthuses his pupils with much of
the high idealism which has always characterized his professional
connections.

Aside from all of these activities and interests, bearing upon
the practice and science of medicine, Dr. Adami was chosen
president of the City Improvement League in 1909, and was elected
vice president of the University Club in the same year. He holds
membership in the St. James Club, and in the Savile Club of
London.

Dr. Adami was married in 1894, to Mary Stuart, a daughter of
James A. Cantlie of Montreal, and a niece of Lord Mount Stephen.
Their residence, No. 34 Macgregor Avenue, is one of Montreal’s
attractive homes, while the family are well known in the best
social circles of the city. The Herald has said of Dr. Adami:
“Endowed with youth, energy and enthusiasm, his investigations
have been important and of great benefit to mankind.” His name
in connection with his professional ability and research work
is known not only throughout the American continent but in many
educational centers of Europe, as his authorship has made him
known to the profession.


RODOLPHE MONTY, K. C.

Since admitted to the bar in 1897 Rodolphe Monty has continuously
and successfully practiced in Montreal, advancing step by
step to the position which he now occupies as one of the able
representatives of the legal profession in this city. He is a
member of the firm of Monty & Duranleau and their clientage
is of an extensive and important character. Montreal claims
Mr. Monty as a native son. He was born November 30, 1874, and
in the acquirement of his education attended Ste. Marie de
Monnoir College, McGill University and Laval University, his
classical course winning for him the Bachelor of Arts degree,
while his professional course gained for him the degree of
LL. L. In January, 1897, he was called to the bar and at once
entered upon the active practice of a profession for which he
had fully prepared. No dreary novitiate awaited him. He came
almost immediately into prominence and in 1909 was created a
king’s counsel. He is now senior partner of the firm of Monty
& Duranleau, one of the strongest at the Montreal bar, and the
thoroughness and care with which he prepares his cases excites
the admiration and surprise of his contemporaries, who find him
prepared not only for attack but for defense as well. For eight
years he has been a member of the council of the bar of Montreal
and for five years has been examiner. He has served as delegate
to the general council of the bar of the province of Quebec for
three years and as treasurer of the bar of Montreal for two years.

While pursuing his study in the university Mr. Monty was
president of the law students of Laval in 1895-6 and at the same
time was one of the most active members of the model parliament
established among the students. His eloquence and skill as a
debater secured for him the leadership of the opposition in those
early days. He also filled the offices of minister of railways
and canals and speaker of the house. He is now governor general
of the model parliament. He could undoubtedly win parliamentary
honors today if he cared to do so, but, while possibly not
without that laudable ambition which is so useful as an incentive
in public life, he regards the pursuits of private life as in
themselves abundantly worthy of his best efforts and concentrates
his energies upon his professional duties. His devotion to his
clients’ interests is proverbial and on many occasions he has
proven himself capable of solving some of the most involved and
intricate problems of the law. In politics he is a conservative,
while socially he is connected with the St. Denis Club, the Club
Canadien and the Délormier Club.


THE HON. SIR GEORGE A. DRUMMOND, K. C. M. G., C. V. O.

Sir George A. Drummond, whose strong intellectual force gave him
mastery over the grave problems which confronted him as a member
of parliament and enabled him to wisely direct his individual
interests until success placed him among the most prosperous
residents of Montreal, was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1829.
He enjoyed the educational opportunities offered by the high
school of his native city and then entered the university in the
Scottish capital. His laudable ambition and keen insight into
conditions prompted him to seek the advantages offered in the
new world when but twenty-five years of age, and therefore in
1854 he embraced the opportunity to come to Canada and assume the
practical and technical management of a sugar refinery which was
established in Montreal by John Redpath. In this connection the
Gazette, at the time of his death, wrote: “The superior education
he received in the institutions of his native Scotland was a
powerful help to him when he was called upon to grapple with the
problems which demanded solution in an undeveloped country like
the Canada of that day. When he became interested in the Redpath
sugar refinery in the year 1854 he was perhaps the best educated
business man in the city, and whether as a member of the Board of
Trade, a commanding figure in the realm of banking and commerce,
or in social life, he maintained that scholarly supremacy and
distinction which was willingly accorded him by his fellow
citizens more than half a century ago.”

The Redpath sugar refinery proved a profitable enterprise from
the beginning until tariff changes forced the plant to close
down in 1874. Before resuming operations in that line in 1879,
in which year he founded the Canada Sugar Refining Company, of
which he became president, Sir George spent five years abroad
in study, travel and recreation. In connection with the Canada
Sugar Refining Company he developed one of the most important
productive industries of the country and into other fields
extended his efforts with equal discernment and success. He
became a director in the Bank of Montreal in 1882 and in 1887 was
elected vice president and subsequently president, so continuing
until his death. He became president of the company owning
and developing the coal and iron mines at Londonderry, Nova
Scotia, and was prominently connected with many other commercial
interests and projects. He was prominent as a stockholder and
officer in the Mexican Light, Heat & Power Company and was a
director of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company and the Ogilvie
Milling Company and vice president of the Royal Trust Company.
He was also largely interested in the Cumberland Coal &
Railway Company, and his connection extended to various other
corporations which have been important factors in the development
and upbuilding of Canada’s manufacturing interests.

[Illustration: SIR GEORGE A. DRUMMOND]

From the time that he became a resident of Canada Sir George
Drummond also became a student of the conditions of the country
as affected by political interests. Perhaps no better account of
his prominent connection with political affairs can be given than
by quoting from one of the local papers, which wrote: “Though
coming from a country wedded to free trade ideas, he discovered
that new industries could not thrive here in competition with
the advanced and enterprising industrial activity on the other
side of the line. Hence his early advocacy of protection,
designated during the campaign of 1878 as the National Policy.
Sir George Drummond had formed strong friendships with Sir
John A. Macdonald, Sir Charles Tupper and the more aggressive
leaders of the conservative party as represented in the Canadian
parliament. He was induced, much against his will, to accept
the party candidature in Montreal West against one of the most
popular men of the day, Hon. John Young. The contest will be
remembered by some of the older citizens as one of extreme
bitterness, although Mr. Drummond’s utterances on the platform
were marked by ability, force and breadth of view, and those who
heard him during that campaign of 1872 were not by any means
surprised when he developed later into an authority on banking
and finance and a leader in the discussion of matters pertaining
to trade and commerce. That contest preceded by two years the
fall of the Macdonald government and the acceptance of office
by pronounced free traders. As delegation after delegation went
to Ottawa, and were told by the finance minister that ministers
were as flies on a wheel in the matter of bringing prosperity
to the land, Sir George Drummond and his friends, recruited
from both of the old political parties, started to organize the
downfall of free trade in Canada. It was, however, when the
victory had been won at the polls, when Sir Charles Tupper’s
powerful efforts at the by-elections in Ontario, Quebec and Nova
Scotia had brought forth their fruit that the hardest work had
to be done, and here the ability of Sir George came powerfully
into play. Sir Leonard Tilly was finance minister, Sir Mackenzie
Bowell was in charge of the customs and Sir John Macdonald was
powerful in the country and in parliament. He had received a
mandate to bring the National Policy into force; but this was
easier to say than to do. The fiscal and customs policy of the
country had to be changed. It was at this time that the counsel
and business experience of Sir George Drummond were brought
into requisition and with a great degree of success. Time
convinced men of good-will and fair mind that the broad device
of ‘Canada for the Canadians’ and ‘that which is beneficial to
the manufacturer will be equally beneficial to the consumer and
to the country at large,’ were right. Mr. Drummond was not a
conservative during his active participation in party conflicts
because of individual gain. He adhered to principle rather than
to party name. In 1888, Sir John Macdonald being premier, Mr.
Drummond was called to the senate, and up to the time of his
death was the ablest representative of the mercantile classes
in the upper house of the Canadian parliament. As chairman of
the banking and commerce committee of the senate his word was
as law. His opinions relating to matters of financial import
were received without question by minister and member alike, and
when Senator Drummond had spoken upon a question of this kind
there was a general consensus of opinion that little remained
to be said. It was by his mastery of his subject and by his
prominence in all matters affecting the moneyed interests of the
Dominion that he won the respect of his fellow legislators at
the capital. There are many men who are members of the Montreal
Board of Trade who look back to the days when Sir George Drummond
was the president of that organization and remember the manner
in which he filled that office, the highest in the gift of
the merchants of the commercial metropolis of the Dominion.
They remember the high character of his addresses and his wise
contributions to the deliberations of the council. It was
accepted as a matter of course that he should lead off either
as the mover or the seconder in any great question that was
to be presented to the government or to the other colonies or
for the consideration of the whole empire. It was as director,
vice president and president of the Bank of Montreal that the
citizens of the financial center of the Dominion will remember
Sir George Drummond long. His ability was freely acknowledged
on both continents. He was at headquarters early and late,
and his attention to the interests of the bank was as marked
when the financial atmosphere was serene as when there were
lowering clouds on the horizon. His attitude at the annual bank
meetings was the personification of tact and courtesy, and his
able addresses on such occasions, uttered as they were with a
practiced finger resting upon the financial and commercial pulse
of the continent, were read by Wall Street and London as eagerly
as by the public men and bankers of his own country.”

Sir George Drummond was married twice. In 1857 he wedded
Helen, daughter of John Redpath, and following her demise he
was married in 1884 to Mrs. Grace Julia Hamilton, the widow of
George Hamilton and a daughter of A. Davidson Parker, a Montreal
pioneer. Two sons of the first marriage, Huntly R. and Arthur L.,
are living. The former succeeded his father as president of the
Canada Sugar Refining Company, Ltd., and is ex-president of the
Montreal Board of Trade; while the latter is actively identified
with the Canada Sugar Refining Company, Ltd. One son, Guy, of the
second marriage, is living and is a resident of Montreal.

The death of Sir George Drummond occurred February 2, 1910,
removing from the stage of Canadian activity one of its most
prominent and honored figures. He was a member of the St. James
Club, the Rideau Club of Ottawa, the Reform Club of London,
England, and the Manhattan Club of New York.

Sir George and Lady Drummond were in entire sympathy in their
benevolent work. He was the founder of the Home for Incurables
in Montreal, which was opened in 1894 under the charge of the
Sisters of St. Margaret, and Lady Drummond bestowed much care and
thought on the preparation of the interior of the institution.
She has been connected with many societies and movements in
Montreal that have to do with the betterment of the people, the
city or its conditions. She is president of the Montreal Charity
Organization and is actively connected with the Victorian Order
of Nurses and with various other bodies. She was also a member
of the Quebec Tercentennial celebration in 1908. She was the
first president of the local branch of the National Council of
Women. She was elected president of the Women’s Canadian Club of
Montreal for 1907-8, and Lady Aberdeen places her “at the head
of the Canadian sisterhood for activity in ‘promoting all that
is true and just and beautiful among women, and for a consuming
hatred for unrighteousness in every form.’” She presented a
silver cup for competition by the members of the Royal Montreal
Ladies’ Golf Club in 1905. Her name is not unknown in literary
circles and among her writings is an essay entitled “Purity of
Speech and Accent.” She was the first woman to speak at a public
banquet in Montreal, being thus honored in 1898. In 1902 Sir
George and Lady Drummond were presented at court.

On the occasion of the visit of our present King and Queen to
Canada as Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York Lady Drummond
drew up and presented an address to Her Royal Highness on behalf
of the National Council of Women of Canada, while Sir George
Drummond at the same time presented to His Royal Highness the
citizens’ commemorative medal. Lady Aberdeen has characterized
Lady Drummond as “a woman of distinguished presence, with great
personal charm, gifts of rare eloquence and the power of clothing
her thoughts in most expressive language.” She is a member of the
Anglican church, to which Sir George also belonged.

Sir George was much interested in agriculture and the breeding
of fine stock. Huntlywood, his magnificent country place at
Beaconsfield, was one of the finest country estates on the
continent. He took great pride in its well kept condition, his
private golf links affording an opportunity for indulgence in
a recreation that he was fond of. He kept only the finest live
stock that he could procure. His first Southdown sheep were bred
from stock he secured from King Edward. In live-stock breeding
Sir George aimed to maintain the same high standard of excellence
that characterized everything he did. His stock nearly always
won first prize at the big stock shows in Canada and the United
States, where he met in competition the most noted breeders of
his day. Sir George also maintained a beautiful country house,
Gads Hill, at Cacouna, now the summer home of Lady Drummond. He
took a most deep and helpful interest in all those things which
promote the aesthetic and moral nature of the individual and
which act as broadening and uplifting influences in the lives of
all. He was the owner of one of the finest galleries of paintings
on the American continent and was for some time president of the
Art Association of Montreal. It is said of him that he “derived
greater pleasure in pinning a badge to the breast of a member of
the Victorian Order of Nurses and wishing a hearty God-speed to
that devoted agent of good than in talking in millions around
the directors’ table of the Bank of Montreal.” He was a knight
commander of the Order of St. Michael and St. George and his
character and his ability made his presence an honor in any
gathering.

High encomiums were passed upon him by various members of the
senate when he was called from this life on the 2d of February,
1910. One of the local papers said: “Flags flying at half-mast
from many of the chief public and commercial buildings of the
city yesterday testified at once to the extent of the interests
with which Sir George A. Drummond was in his life connected,
and to the respect in which he was held for his character, his
ability and his public services.” The council of the Board
of Trade, of which he had been president, said he was “long
regarded as Montreal’s most eminent citizen and one of the oldest
and most distinguished members of this board.” Senator Lougheed
said that he “doubted if any other name had been more closely
linked with the industrial life of Canada during the early part
of the present generation than that of Sir George Drummond. Not
only has he been associated with the material development of
Canada, but he was equally a supporter of the arts and sciences
and the great sociological questions of this progressive age.
In 1903 he was the recipient of very distinguished honors at
the hands of his sovereign on account of the eminent public
services which he had rendered Canada. His name should long be
revered in Montreal, where it was identified with the great
commercial, educational and philanthropic institutions.” Senator
Dandurand said of Sir George: “He was esteemed in Montreal
as a liberal-minded man who did his utmost to maintain good
understanding between the races in that city, always showing an
earnest desire to promote harmony. He was a benefactor of all
institutions that needed private help and will be missed by the
community at large, as he was whole-souled, kind-hearted and one
who played a most important role in all the affairs of the city.”


L. JOSEPH THEOPHILE DECARY.

L. Joseph Theophile Decary, an architect of pronounced ability
and prominently known as a water color artist, was born at St.
Jerome, Quebec, September 21, 1882, a son of Jean Baptiste and
Marie Theolinde (Lauzon) Decary, natives of Lachine and St.
Jerome respectively. When the north was open for settlement
in 1876 the father went to St. Jerome to establish business
as a jeweler and has there since resided. He is of the eighth
generation in direct descent from Jean Decarys, who came to
Canada with Maisonneuve in 1642. The name has since been
variously spelled Decary, Decaire and Descarries.

L. Joseph Theophile Decary, whose name introduces this record,
pursued a commercial course in St. Jerome, leaving the school
there in 1900. He afterward spent a year in a pharmaceutical
establishment and a year as a telegraph operator at St. Jerome
Junction on the Canadian Pacific and Canadian Northern of Quebec
Railroads. When nineteen years of age he left home, without
funds, to go to Boston, hoping there to find the opportunity
which would enable him to develop his latent talents in drawing.
From an early age he had displayed considerable ability in that
direction and believed that his line of life should be determined
thereby. After reaching Boston he secured a situation in an
architect’s office which brought him a salary of two dollars per
week. He learned quickly and won the confidence and assistance
of Guy Lowell, architect, who sent him to the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Boston in October, 1903. There he
followed a special course in architecture until 1905, and he now
holds a degree from the association of architects of the Province
of Quebec Architects’ Association. Following his return to Canada
he opened an office in Montreal, where he has since practiced
his profession, his ability gaining him a large clientage. He
made the architectural design and plans for the Ecole des Hautes
Etudes Commerciales of Montreal for Messrs. Gauthier and Daoust.
His talent has been further developed in the field of fine arts
as shown in his exhibitions in water colors at the season
exhibit of the Art Association of Montreal in 1910. He is a
member of the National Gallery of Ottawa.

[Illustration: L. J. T. DECARY]

On the 23d of April, 1906, at Point St. Charles, Montreal, Mr.
Decary was united in marriage to Hattie G. Blanchard, a daughter
of Captain J. B. Blanchard and widow of John Weatherburn. In his
political views Mr. Decary is a liberal and is without political
ambition or aspiration. He finds pleasant association with men
of similar professional talents in the Technology Club of Lower
Canada and interest and recreation through his membership in the
St. John Yacht Club, of which he was vice commodore in the year
1913.


ALEXANDER DRUMMOND STEWART, M. D.

Dr. Alexander Drummond Stewart, a successful physician and since
1903 connected with the department of the interior of the port
of Montreal, is a native of Toronto, Ontario, and acquired his
preliminary education in the public schools of that city. He
studied medicine in McGill University, graduating with the degree
of M. D. in 1888. Since that time he has been continuously in
practice.

Dr. Stewart opened his first office in Richmond, Quebec province,
and he continued there until 1898, building up a large and
representative clientage and in addition to its conduct serving
in an able way as medical officer for the Grand Trunk Railway at
that point. From Richmond he came to Montreal and in this city is
now a successful practitioner. Besides conducting his extensive
private practice he is medical officer of the department of the
interior of the port of Montreal, an office to which he was
elected in 1903.

Dr. Stewart married Miss Emma Christie of Lachute, Argenteuil
county, Quebec, and they have become the parents of a daughter,
Bessie. Dr. Stewart is a member of St. Paul’s Presbyterian
church. He belongs to the Outremont Golf Club and the University
Club. Along professional lines he is connected with the Montreal
Medico-Chirurgical Society, and he keeps in touch with the most
advanced medical thought, remaining always a close and earnest
student.


JOHN MITCHELL.

John Mitchell, deceased, who was for thirty years a produce
merchant of Montreal, was born at Dufftown, Scotland, in 1830,
and his life record covered the intervening years to the 23d of
November, 1904. His is a history of intense and well directed
activity along the line in which he engaged. Educated in
Scotland, he came to Quebec when sixteen years of age, having
a brother, Robert, in this province. He made his entrance into
business life as an employe of a Mr. Symes, a merchant; but after
a short time he left the city of Quebec for Montreal at the
solicitation of his uncle, Alexander Simpson, who was manager
of the Bank of Montreal. Mr. Mitchell embarked in business in
connection with others as a wholesale dealer in molasses, sugar
and grain in the West Indies, but the business failed and for
a short time thereafter Mr. Mitchell was a resident of Chicago,
Illinois. Later he went to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, but soon
returned to Montreal and here engaged in the produce business in
which he continued for thirty years, or until his death. He lived
a quiet life, being modest and unassuming in manner, and his
uprightness and his honorable qualities won him the admiration
and respect of all.

Mr. Mitchell was married to Margaret Turner of Keith, Scotland,
and they became the parents of two children: John Alexander,
living near Edmonton, Canada; and Alice Margaret, who is a member
of the editorial staff of the Montreal Weekly Star. In 1871 Mr.
Mitchell was again married in the cathedral of Montreal to Miss
Elizabeth Scott, a daughter of Dr. Alexander Scott, who came
from Keith, Scotland, and practiced in Montreal, but died when
his daughter, Mrs. Mitchell, was but five years of age. In later
years Mrs. Scott lived with her daughter until her death. The
children of Mr. Mitchell’s second marriage were four in number,
of whom two are living: Walter Scott, a resident of Sorrento,
Notch Hill, British Columbia; and Charles Stewart, who is with
the Ogilvie Flour Mills Company of Montreal.

The family attend the First Presbyterian church, of which Mr.
Mitchell was a devout member. He was also one of the founders of
the St. James Club and one of the original members of the Thistle
Curling Club. While quiet and unassuming in manner, the circle
of his friends was almost coextensive with the circle of his
acquaintances, a fact indicative of an honorable and well spent
life.


BARUCH BLOOMFIELD.

In the history of Judaism on the American continent the name of
few deserve equal prominence with that of Baruch Bloomfield,
scholar, educator and philanthropist, actuated at all times by
the highest spirit of humanitarianism and moral force. He was
born in Russia. He had liberal educational advantages for his
time and throughout his life was a close and discriminating
student. Crossing the Atlantic to the new world, he settled first
in New York, where he engaged in teaching for about ten years.
He was one of the greatest Hebrew and Talmudic scholars of his
time. About 1870 he removed from New York to Montreal, which city
remained his place of residence throughout the rest of his life.
His family is one of the oldest Jewish families in Montreal,
having been represented here for close to a century. For a
quarter of a century prior to his demise he was a representative
in Montreal of the German Jews in Jerusalem and was a prominent
member of the McGill College Avenue synagogue to which he
rendered great services at various times. A part of his life work
was the collection of funds which he forwarded to the Holy Land,
and to the cause he was himself a most generous contributor.

Mr. Bloomfield was united in marriage to Miss Dora Albert and
they became the parents of five sons, four of whom still survive,
Abraham, David, Harry and Samuel, together with the mother. In
1901 the family were called upon to mourn the loss of a daughter
and sister, Jessie, whose death was an irreparable blow to the
household. It was while still grieving over the loss of this
daughter that Mr. Bloomfield went to New Orleans, called there by
the sudden illness of his son, Moses, who was traveling through
the south for a Canadian firm. He was a young man of twenty-five
years and was looked upon in the community as a model young man
of sterling character, of the highest honor and integrity, and
of ideal purity in life. The father hastened to his bedside and
every possible thing was done to restore him to health, but a few
days after the father’s arrival Moses Bloomfield passed away.
This death following so closely upon the death of the daughter
was more than Mr. Bloomfield could bear. He died almost literally
of a broken heart, passing away in New Orleans on the 31st of
December, 1901, aged fifty-six years. The sudden demise of father
and son has been greatly deplored by the entire Jewish community
and especially by the Shaar (Hashomayim) congregation to which
they belonged. A beautiful memorial service was held at the
McGill College Avenue synagogue. The remains of father and son
were interred in a cemetery in New Orleans, but at the memorial
service in Montreal hundreds of their friends gathered to pay
the last tribute of respect and to thus honor their memory. In
his address Rabbi Bernard M. Kaplan said: “We have assembled in
this House of God from all parts of the city to mourn a great
and grievous loss which we have sustained by the untimely demise
of two most virtuous, most pious and most respected members of
the community, a father and son who under the most pathetic
circumstances found their graves in a strange land. The son,
while yet in the freshness and bloom of life, expired in the
embrace of a loving father who had traversed almost a continent
to gaze once more upon the innocent and serene countenance of
his child.” Rabbi Kaplan said that some would mourn more deeply
the loss of the young man--his associates and friends who were
closely connected with him--while to others the death of the
father, which had come as a more telling blow, yet by all the
death of each would be felt, for each was a man largely ideal in
his home relations and in his relations to his friends and to his
congregation. Mr. Bloomfield was a most devoted and loving father
as well as a most kind, considerate and affectionate husband. “He
not only loved his wife, but true to the teachings of the Talmud,
of which he was a great student, he honored and respected her.
His family life was an inspiration to every lover of ideal home
life. His modest home was a veritable sanctuary whose atmosphere
was permeated by serene peace, true purity, and sincere piety.
And, again, every one who appreciates gentleness of manner and
gentleness of disposition, purity of life and purity of thought,
faith in God and faith in humanity, devotion to religion and
devotion to every other duty, sincerity of speech and sincerity
of action, must lament the loss which the community sustains
by the death of Baruch Bloomfield, for he embodied all these
qualities and many more. He loved peace and pursued it. He loved
Hebrew learning and devoted his life to it. He loved Judaism and
made great sacrifices for it. He loved charity and gave it. I
approached him myself several times on matters of charity. Not
only did he contribute a great deal more that I thought his means
allowed him, but what is more, he gave his share with all his
heart and soul--so much so that he reminded me of the proverbial
romantic Hebrew charity which meant not only the giving of money
but also the giving, so to speak, of the very heart with it.

“For a period of twenty-five years Baruch Bloomfield, from time
to time collected and forwarded considerable funds to the Holy
Land. It was the supreme passion of his life to step some day on
the Holy Land. His wish like that of Moses has not, however, been
realized. He died on this side of the Jordan. But, friends, there
was no need for Baruch Bloomfield to go to Palestine in order to
be on holy land. I say in all sincerity, that the ground where so
pure and so pious a man as Baruch Bloomfield stood, studied or
prayed, was holy. It was sanctified by the holiness of an ideal
Jewish life. Yea, the very ground wherein his body, the shrine
of so beautiful a soul is deposited is positively holy. Baruch
Bloomfield was an ish kaddish, a holy man in the traditional
sense of the term. A truly holy man sanctifies his surroundings.”


SIR THOMAS GEORGE RODDICK, M. D., LL. D., F. R. C. S.

Sir Thomas George Roddick, M. D., LL. D., F. R. C. S., was born
at Harbour Grace, Newfoundland, July 31, 1846, a son of the late
John Irving Roddick and Emma Jane Martin. His father was a native
of Dumfriesshire, Scotland, and was for many years principal
of the government school at Harbour Grace. After pursuing his
preliminary education with his father, and, later, in the Truro
Model and Normal Schools of Nova Scotia, Sir Thomas entered
McGill University in 1864 in preparation for the practice of
medicine, which he intended to make his life’s work. He graduated
M. D., C. M., in 1868, and was the Holmes Gold Medallist and
final prizeman of his year. Immediately following his graduation
he was appointed assistant house surgeon and afterwards house
surgeon of the Montreal General Hospital, which position he held
for six years. Later, he received an appointment as attending
surgeon to that institution and in 1874 entered upon private
practice. From 1872 to 1874 he was lecturer on hygiene in
McGill University and was demonstrator of anatomy during 1874
and 1875. In the latter year he was made professor of clinical
surgery, which position he held for fifteen years, when he became
professor of surgery, occupying that chair until 1907. He was
dean of the medical faculty of McGill from 1901 till 1908.

In 1896 Sir Thomas was elected president of the British Medical
Association, being the first colonial physician ever honored by
election to that office, which he held from 1896 to 1898. He
presided at the Montreal meeting and was subsequently elected
vice president for life of that, the largest and most important
medical body in the world.

He is president of the Montreal branch of the Victorian Order
of Nurses; president of the Alexandra Hospital for Contagious
Diseases; vice president of the Royal Edward Institute;
consulting surgeon to the Royal Victoria Hospital and Montreal
General Hospital. He was a member of the royal tuberculosis
commission recently appointed by the Quebec government; is a
past president of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Montreal,
and of the Canadian Medical Association, of which latter body he
was recently appointed honorary president. When the Newfoundland
Society of Montreal was organized a few years ago he was
appointed honorary president. In 1898 Edinburgh University
recognized his services to medicine by conferring upon him the
honorary degree of LL. D.; in 1903 Queen’s University honored him
in a like manner; in 1899 he was elected an honorary F. R. C. S.,
London. After resigning the deanship of the medical faculty of
McGill in 1908, he was appointed a governor of McGill University.
He was one of the first surgeons on this continent to employ
Lister’s methods in the treatment of wounds.

[Illustration: SIR THOMAS G. RODDICK]

Sir Thomas’ connection with the militia of Canada dates as
far back as 1868, when he joined the Grand Trunk Artillery as
assistant surgeon, and was under orders for the second Fenian
raid in 1870. He subsequently commanded the University Company
of the Prince of Wales Rifles and was appointed surgeon to that
regiment in 1885. During the Northwest rebellion in the same
year he organized the hospital and ambulance service for the
expeditionary force and was in charge of the medical service in
the field, holding the rank of deputy surgeon general of militia,
was mentioned in despatches and recommended for the C. M. G. For
his services on this occasion, and for the Fenian raid, he holds
the service medals, and also the long-service medal. He attained
the rank of lieutenant colonel in 1900 and is now on the retired
list of officers.

Sir Thomas is a conservative in politics and represented St.
Antoine division over two parliaments, sitting in the house of
commons from 1896 until 1904. His chief reason for entering
politics was to exploit a scheme which he had long advocated,
viz., that of Dominion medical registration, for which a
federal act was necessary. The “Roddick Bill” so-called, passed
parliament in 1902, was amended and became operative in 1911.
Thus was established a one-portal system for entrance to the
practice of medicine throughout the Dominion of Canada. A
Dominion medical council was at once organized, of which Sir
Thomas was elected first president.

Sir Thomas was married in 1880 to Miss Marion McKinnon, a
daughter of the late William McKinnon of Pointe Claire, P. Q. Her
death occurred in 1890, and he afterwards wedded in September,
1906, Miss Amy Redpath, daughter of the late J. J. Redpath of
Montreal. His religious faith is that of the Presbyterian church.

He is a member of the Hunt Club, the University Club and the
Mount Royal Club. His residence is at 705 Sherbrooke Street, West.

Patriotism, courage and generosity have always characterized
him, and, notwithstanding the demands ever made upon him in his
professional life, he has always found time to take an active
part in all movements having to do with the social and moral
welfare of his adopted city.


FERDINAND GUSTAVE LEDUC.

Among the representative bankers of Montreal is Ferdinand
Gustave Leduc, manager of the Banque d’Hochelaga, and as such
enjoys high prestige among his colleagues. He is considered an
authority upon financial matters, and that this judgment is not
misplaced is evident from the success with which he manages this
eight-million-dollar institution. Although he has attained a high
place among the captains of finance he is modest and unassuming
in his demeanor, ever ready to receive a caller or listen to
the most humble of his employes in order to keep in touch with
the smallest details of his business and all situations and
conditions that might affect the financial world. Mr. Leduc is a
native of the province of Quebec, his birth having occurred at
Beauharnois on the 31st of March, 1871. He is a son of Michel
Ferdinand and Mathilde (Vachon) Leduc and was educated in his
native city in 1884, became a student at St. Joseph’s College of
Burlington, Vermont. The earliest records of the Leduc family in
Canada refer to one Jean Le Duc, born in 1624, a son of Jean and
Cécile (La Chaperon) Le Duc. On May 11, 1652, Jean Le Duc, first
mentioned, married Marie Soulinié at Montreal and died about
fifty years later, on April 19, 1702. This record is taken from
the “Dictionnaire Généalogique,” compiled by Abbé Tanguay.

Ferdinand G. Leduc early displayed an interest in the banking
business and in 1886, after leaving the academy in Vermont,
entered upon a position with La Banque Jacques Cartier, with
which institution he remained until 1899, becoming well
acquainted with all the details as regards investments and
credits and the multitudinous duties and responsibilities
connected with the management and direction of a large financial
establishment. Since 1899 Mr. Leduc has been manager of the
Banque d’Hochelaga, his extraordinary ability finding recognition
in this important position. The bank has a capital and reserve of
about eight million dollars and is one of the strongest financial
institutions in the Dominion.

On the 14th of January, 1894, Mr. Leduc married Miss Corinne
Bisson, a daughter of E. H. Bisson, a prominent man along various
lines and well known as a member of the provincial parliament.
Mr. and Mrs. Leduc have three children: Louis Philippe, aged
seventeen; Gabrielle, aged twelve; and Jeanne Aimée, aged ten.
The family affiliates with the Catholic church.

Mr. Leduc takes a deep interest in the metropolitan development
of Montreal and is ever ready to extend or place at the disposal
of the general public his time or means in order to promote
worthy public enterprises. Although he has not cared to actively
participate in public life, he has done much to promote the
growth of the city in his private capacity. Personally he is
approachable, kindly and dignified--a gentleman of pleasing
manners and fine appearance, combining with grace of manner
an American demeanor of democracy which readily makes for him
friends who are devoted to him on account of the substantial
qualities of his character.


FREDERICK ERNEST THOMPSON, M. D.

Dr. Frederick Ernest Thompson, who since 1890 has been in
continuous practice of his profession in Montreal, his signal
ability commanding for him a distinguished place in medical
circles and a wide and representative patronage, was born in the
city of Quebec, Quebec province, and acquired his early education
in the grammar and high schools there. He followed this by a
course in Morrin College and after completing this entered McGill
University from which he was graduated M. D. in 1890. He still
remains a close and earnest student of his profession, keeping in
touch with its most advanced and modern thought.

Dr. Thompson began practice in Montreal in the fall of 1890,
and his ability attained instant recognition. Since that time
constant study and research and steadily widening experience
have broadened and developed his powers, and he is today one of
the most successful and prominent physicians and surgeons in the
city where he makes his home. In the latter line of work he has
become especially proficient as his position in the department
of obstetrics and operative surgery on the staff of the
Women’s Hospital plainly shows. He is a member of the Montreal
Medico-Chirurgical and the Canadian Medical and British Medical
Associations, and a fellow in the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society,
and his ability is widely recognized in professional circles.


PROFESSOR CHARLES EBENEZER MOYSE.

Professor Charles Ebenezer Moyse, a member of the faculty of
McGill University since 1878 and since 1903 dean of the faculty
of arts and vice principal of McGill, needs no introduction
to the readers of this volume, for his fame and ability as
an educationist and writer, both of verse and of prose, have
made his name a familiar one from coast to coast. He was born
at Torquay, England, March 9, 1852, a son of the late Charles
Westaway and Mary Anne (Jenkins) Moyse, the former of Torquay
and the latter a daughter of John Jenkins, of Exeter. He was
educated first of all at the Independent College, Taunton, and
subsequently at University College, London. He obtained the
Bachelor of Arts degree of the University of London in 1874. He
was university exhibitioner in English and also headed the honor
list in animal physiology. His career as an educationist has been
a successful one from the outset. He was appointed headmaster of
St. Mary’s College, Peckham, and while filling that position was
elected in 1878 to the Molson professorship of English literature
at McGill University, Montreal. In 1903 McGill conferred upon him
the honorary degree of LL. D. In the same year he was appointed
dean of the faculty of arts and vice principal. His position
in the university at once indicates his high standing in the
profession. He was editor in chief of the McGill University
Magazine, now the University Magazine, for five years, and has
for many years been president of the McGill College Cricket Club,
a fact which indicates that his interest is not merely along
literary lines.

Professor Moyse has ever been a close and discriminating student
and has found his greatest pleasure as well as his chief activity
in roaming through the fields of the world’s literature and
finding companionship with the men of master minds. The result of
his labors has, in part, been given to the world in a number of
published volumes and articles. In 1879 he brought out a volume
entitled “The Dramatic Art of Shakespeare,” and in 1883 “Poetry
as a Fine Art.” In 1889, under the pseudonym “Belgrave Titmarsh,”
he published a volume entitled “Shakespeare’s Skull,” and he
published in 1910, a volume entitled “Ella Lee; Glimpses of Child
Life,” consisting of poems reminiscent of his childhood days in
Devonshire. In 1911 appeared “The Lure of Earth,” a volume of
poems of a more serious character. He has also written various
poems and literary articles which have appeared in the leading
magazines of the day.

In June, 1883, Professor Moyse wedded Janet McDougall, the eldest
daughter of John Stirling of Montreal. Mrs. Moyse has been deeply
interested in a movement for providing playgrounds for children
in Montreal, her efforts in that direction being untiring, and
she is now a director of the Parks and Playgrounds Association.
Professor Moyse has been a close student of all the interesting
problems and significant questions of the day and absorption in
books has never made him neglectful of the duties and obligations
of citizenship. His social nature finds expression in his
membership in the Thistle Curling Club and University Club. He
has been characterized as “a highly cultured man who has had a
brilliant career as an educationist.”


GEORGE HAGUE.

Respected by all who know him, no man occupies a more creditable
position in banking circles than does George Hague of Montreal,
who for many years was prominently identified with the management
of important financial affairs. He has been equally well known
by reason of his active support of benevolent and philanthropic
objects and by his interest in phases of public-spirited
citizenship. He was born at Rotherham, Yorkshire, England,
January 13, 1825, a son of Mr. John Hague, and comes from an old
family of bankers, as some or other of his relatives have for
generations back been connected with the leading bank in the
town. Mr. Hague has passed the eighty-ninth milestone on life’s
journey and his career has been one of usefulness and honor.

His early education was acquired at Morgate Academy, in his
native town, where his proficiency in mental arithmetic placed
him at the head of the school when yet a mere boy. His school
days over, he entered into active connection with financial
interests as an employe of the Sheffield Banking Company. He
remained in Great Britain until 1854, when he came to Canada,
having accepted the position of financial manager of a firm of
railway contractors. Two years later he became accountant at
the head office in the newly organized Bank of Toronto. The
steps in his orderly progression are easily discernible. He
advanced from one position to another which brought upon him
larger responsibilities and duties, each, however, finding
him adequate to the demands made upon him. He was appointed
manager of the Bank of Toronto at Cobourg, Ontario, and in 1863
succeeded the late Mr. Angus Cameron as cashier of the bank,
in which capacity he remained until 1876. It was during this
period that Mr. Hague’s influence was felt in some of the most
important legislation affecting banking interests in Canada. The
government had brought in two measures in succession, for the
regulation of the currency. To the first, some of the western
bankers were inclined to agree, but Mr. Hague conceived its
operation would be prejudicial to the interests of a bank like
the Bank of Toronto, and the finance minister was prevailed on to
make it optional instead of compulsory. Only one bank consented
to embrace its provisions, and, for some years, matters went
along undisturbed. The second measure was far more dangerous,
and was wholly compulsory. It was founded on the American
currency plan, which was then at the zenith of its popularity,
and had not yet developed any of the unfavorable features which
afterwards transpired. This Canadian government measure, many
bankers, particularly from Ontario and Nova Scotia, concluded
would be utterly unsuitable to the circumstances of Canada,
and they determined to give it strenuous opposition. Mr. Hague
was appointed secretary of an informal association for the
purpose, and the contest was maintained through two or three
sessions of parliament. There were powerful influences at the
back of the government in favor of the measure and the contest
was a very determined one. At length when Sir Francis Hincks
had been appointed finance minister, a satisfactory compromise
was proposed, accepted, and its provisions incorporated in the
Dominion note act, and the Canadian bank act, which both shortly
followed.

[Illustration: GEORGE HAGUE]

Previous to this every bank was worked under a separate charter,
but now these various charters were amalgamated under one
compendious act, the preparation of which occupied the leading
bankers and lawyers in the house of commons for several months.
In these discussions Mr. Hague naturally took a leading part,
along with Mr. E. H. King of the Bank of Montreal. Hon. Mr.
Lewin, of the Bank of New Brunswick, Hon. Edward Blake of
Toronto, Mr. Peter Jack who represented the banks of Nova Scotia
and, of course, the finance minister. This act, together with the
Dominion note act, has been at the foundation of Canadian banking
ever since. During the progress of these discussions Mr. Hague
was offered the general managership of the Bank of Commerce, as
well as one of the higher positions in the Bank of Montreal. Both
however were declined.

After the exacting labors entailed by this contest, Mr. Hague
concluded that the time had arrived when he might fairly carry
out a project that he had cherished for many years, viz., to
devote the remainder of his life to religious and philanthropic
work. In preparation for this he resigned his position in the
Bank of Toronto and made other arrangements for a change in
his mode of life. Upon severing his connection with the Bank
of Toronto, the directors of that institution presented Mr.
Hague with a service of plate and a handsome sum of money, in
consideration of his efficient services to the bank as well as
for his most valuable services to the banking interests of Canada
generally.

Subsequent events proved that Mr. Hague’s preparations for
retirement from the banking business were premature.

A cloud had been gathering over the commercial and financial
position of Canada for some time back, and it was never darker
or deeper than in the opening months of 1877. The records of
failures and insolvencies grew to alarming proportions, fully
four times the usual average, and the losses of the banks told
on them severely. The general manager of the Merchants Bank of
Canada having resigned, the directors of that institution offered
the position to Mr. Hague and pressed upon him to accept it.

It was like taking command of a ship in the midst of a storm,
but he felt it his duty to undertake the task, but did so with
a full understanding that he should be at liberty to devote a
reasonable amount of time to religious and philanthropic work. It
was several years before the financial cloud passed by, and of
the strenuous labors of bankers at that time it is needless to
speak. Suffice to say that Mr. Hague held on to his post with
careful attention to the matters he had stipulated for, and only
retired after twenty-five years more of service, at a ripe old
age, and having in the meantime assisted in the decennial reviews
of the banking act that transpired from time to time according to
its provisions. At the time of his resignation as general manager
in 1902, the directors of the Merchants Bank presented Mr. Hague
with a valuable piece of solid silver, gold plated, and made a
handsome provision for the remainder of his life.

Whilst general manager of this bank, Mr. Hague was several
times requested by the American Bankers’ Association to address
its annual meeting, and took an active part in preventing the
adoption of silver as the basis of the finances of the United
States. He also drew up a paper in which a strenuous protest was
made against the adoption of silver as part of the basis of the
currency of the Bank of England. This had been urged by a school
of financiers known as bi-metallists, but Canada has always stood
solidly on a gold basis, and so has England remained.

When the Bankers’ Association of Canada was founded, Mr. Hague
took an active part in company with Mr. Wolferstan Thomas, Mr.
Duncan Coulson, and other bankers in drawing up its constitution,
and was chosen its first president. Since his retirement from
banking circles he has been honorary president, an office to
which he was reelected at the last annual meeting of that
association.

In the intervening years, since his retirement to the present
time, Mr. Hague has given his attention to literary and
philanthropic work and has become widely known by reason of his
contributions to the press and his cooperation in many organized
charitable and benevolent projects, especially the Young Men’s
Christian Association.

He has written many articles which have appeared in the financial
papers and also reviews on banking and philanthropic subjects.
He also published a valuable treatise, entitled Banking and
Commerce. His published works include, Some Practical Studies in
the History and Biography of the Old Testament.

Another phase of his activity has brought Mr. Hague not only into
close connection with many charitable and benevolent movements,
but also with projects of vital importance to the city and its
material, intellectual and moral development. He is today a
governor of McGill University, vice president of the Montreal
Diocesan College; a governor of the Montreal General Hospital,
and a director of the House of Industry and other kindred
organizations. He is vice president of the Canadian Bible Society
and was at one time president of the Young Men’s Christian
Association, to which he has been a generous contributor.

Some years ago, after an era of extravagant expenditure of the
city council during which the debt of the city was doubled in
five years, an association was formed for maintaining a watchful
oversight over the finances of the city. This was called the Good
Government Association, and many of Montreal’s most prominent
citizens became members of it. Of this association Mr. Hague
was chosen president, and under its auspices an efficient
check was placed upon extravagant spending by the Montreal
Corporation, through an act of the legislature, brought in by
Mr. George Washington Stephens. Mr. Hague often went to Quebec
on the business of this association which has now, however, been
dissolved and superseded.

At a certain period of our parliamentary history, when the late
Sir John Abbott was premier, a great outcry was made as to
abuses in connection with the civil service. A Royal commission
was appointed for examination of which Edmond Barbeau and J.
M. Courtney, deputy finance minister, were members. Of this
commission Mr. Hague was appointed chairman. The examination was
very thorough and extended over several months. Every department
of the service was overhauled and at its close a series of
recommendations were made, all of which tended to correct abuses
and promote efficiency, and, which if adopted, would have
resulted in a large annual saving to the country. Some of these
were adopted, but others unfortunately were not, and another
commission became necessary later on.

Mr. Hague still has financial interests in several corporations,
being a director of the Guarantee Company of North America, and
others of a similar character.

Mr. Hague has never been an active politician, but his connection
is with the liberal-conservative element, his support being
given to the Chamberlain policy. No movement tending to
promote civic virtue or civic pride has failed to receive his
indorsement and support. His interest in public affairs is that
of a broad-minded, public-spirited citizen, looking beyond the
exigencies of the moment to the possibilities and opportunities
of the future. His religious faith is that of the Anglican
church, in which he has been a most active worker for many years.

Mr. Hague has been married twice. In 1852 he wedded Sarah
Cousins, a daughter of Mr. Joseph Cousins, a manufacturer of
Sheffield, England. Her death occurred in 1900 and in March,
1902, he wedded Mary Frances Mitcheson, a daughter of the late
McGregor Mitcheson, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He is now past
the eighty-ninth milestone on life’s journey, but in spirit and
interest seems yet in his prime. The Canadian American has truly
styled him, “A high-minded Christian gentleman, public-spirited
and always at the front in every philanthropic movement ...,
never knew a fairer man or one more actively unselfish.” All this
indicates that his life was never self-centered but has reached
out along lines of constantly broadening usefulness and activity
for the benefit of the people, seeking rather the welfare and
benefit of the many than the advancement of self. His life has
indeed been one of signal usefulness.


WILLIAM ROBERTSON.

Insurance interests found a prominent representative in William
Robertson in Montreal, who was largely a pioneer in the work
of adapting English companies to the business methods pursued
on this side of the Atlantic. A Canadian by birth, his native
town was Lachute, province of Quebec, and his natal year 1847.
His father, Dr. William Robertson, a graduate of the Edinburgh
Medical College, settled in Lachute when a young man, there
establishing himself in practice, but later removed to St.
Andrews East, where he continued actively in the profession
until his death, greatly endearing himself to the community by
the willingness to which he responded to the call of the sick,
even though it meant a self-sacrificing ride of from sixty to
seventy-five miles. His patients had the utmost confidence in him
and his professional efforts were a blessing to the inhabitants
of that, then scarcely settled district. He married Miss Mary A.
Tierney, of Ireland, and they had two sons and three daughters,
the surviving son being Dr. Patrick Robertson of England. An
uncle of our subject was Colin Robertson, who won fame in the
northwest.

William Robertson pursued his education in the schools of St.
Andrews East and from his youth up was an underwriter, having
begun business when quite young by entering the insurance office
of Simpson & Bethune of Montreal. Such was the reputation which
he won for superior business qualifications, for executive power
and administrative ability, that in 1873, when but twenty-six
years of age he was elected as representative for Canada of the
London & Lancashire Life Assurance Company. The duties of this
office he filled most acceptably for about seventeen years,
or until his life’s labors were ended in death. He projected
many changes and improvements in the methods of the English
offices, transacting business on this side of the Atlantic. He
made thoroughly Canadian in spirit and activity, the London &
Lancashire Company in the Dominion, bringing about its popularity
and success. He carefully organized and systematized the business
here, with the result that the London & Lancashire Company became
one of the strongest insurance companies of the country.

In 1871 Mr. Robertson was married to Miss Helen I. Barnston, a
daughter of George Barnston, who throughout his active life was
engaged in the Hudson’s Bay service in British Columbia and in
the northwest country. He came to Canada in 1821 and retired,
after many years service with the Hudson’s Bay Company, spending
the remainder of his days in a well earned rest in Montreal. His
wife was Miss Helen Mathews of England. Mr. and Mrs. Robertson
became the parents of two children, who are living: Dr. William
Graeme Robertson of England, who is attached to the White Star
service; and Helen M. C., at home.

Mr. Robertson was active as a faithful member of St. James
Episcopal church, in which he served as warden and he also
belonged to the St. James Club. His keen sagacity enabled him to
recognize the different spirits of the business circles in the
old world and in the new, to adapt himself to changed conditions
and to work along lines of new world progress. Thus he became
a recognized leader in insurance circles occupying a prominent
position until 1889 when he went to Denver, Colorado, for his
health, there passing away on the 26th of February, of that year.


CHARLES P. HEBERT.

Charles P. Hébert, the first president of the wholesale grocery
firm of Hudon, Hébert & Company, Ltd., of Montreal, was born
in the pretty little village of St. Charles on the Richelieu
river, and when a young man made his way to the city which was
ever afterward his home. Here he began business in a small way
and by energy and industry soon built up his establishment. In
1883 he became a member of the firm of Hudon, Hébert & Company.
The business was originally established under the style of E.
& V. Hudon and subsequently was conducted under the name
of V. Hudon and later became J. Hudon & Company. In 1906 it
was incorporated as Hudon, Hébert & Company, Charles P. Hébert
becoming the first president of that corporation. They are
wholesale grocers and wine merchants, the premier establishment
of its kind in the Dominion, importing directly from manufacturers
in Europe, China, Japan, Asia Minor and the United States.
They employ one hundred and seventy people in their Montreal
establishment and have twenty-five salesmen constantly visiting
all Canada, selling their goods from the Atlantic to the Pacific
to the amount of five million dollars annually.

[Illustration: CHARLES P. HEBERT]

Mr. Hébert always took a deep interest in Montreal’s charitable
institutions. He was president of the board of management of the
Notre Dame Hospital and was also connected with other benevolent
organizations and projects. He served as a member of the council
of the Montreal Board of Trade and filled honorable positions in
that body, including those of vice president and member of the
board of arbitration. He was one of the directors of the City and
District Savings Bank and also a director of the Masson estate.

Mr. Hébert died at his home at No. 117 Champ de Mars, Montreal,
July 17, 1906, and was survived by a widow and six children.

After the death of Mr. Hébert Mr. Joseph Hudon was elected
president of the corporation and on his death in 1908 Mr. Albert
Hébert, son of Charles P. Hébert, succeeded to the presidency,
and following his demise in 1911 Mr. Zéphirin Hébert, also a son
of Charles P. Hébert, became president of the company.


REV. ALEXANDER CHARLESON MANSON, PH. D., D. D.

In Presbyterian circles in North America the name of the Rev.
Alexander Charleson Manson is well known and since the 19th
of April, 1912, he has been pastor of the Taylor Presbyterian
church of Montreal, one of the largest organizations of the
city. A native of Thurso, Scotland, he pursued his education in
the schools of Edinburgh and of Winnipeg, Manitoba. Studying
theology, he won his Doctor of Divinity degree at the University
of Chicago and he first served as superintendent of missions of
North Dakota. Later he accepted a pastorate in Duluth, Minnesota,
and afterward became pastor of the Eleventh Presbyterian church
in Chicago, Illinois. From that city he went to Detroit,
Michigan, in response to a call from the Second Avenue
Presbyterian church and left that city to come to Montreal on the
19th of April, 1912, where he entered upon his duties as minister
of the Taylor Presbyterian church, which was organized July 23,
1876, with Rev. J. J. Casey as its first pastor. He continued in
that position until March 16, 1882, and was succeeded by the Rev.
Thomas Bennett, who remained in charge from the 1st of December,
1885, until December 31, 1897. His successor was the Rev. W. D.
Reid, who continued in charge until 1912, when Rev. Manson became
pastor. The present edifice of the Taylor Presbyterian church
was erected in 1893, at a cost of about sixty thousand dollars.
There is a membership of nine hundred and thirteen, with a
Sunday school of four hundred and fifty members, and the Junior
Christian Endeavor Society is the largest in the city. There is
a strong Sunday Afternoon Club, a First Company of Montreal Boys
Brigade and a Ladies Athletic Club as auxiliary organizations
to the church. In fact, the church work has been thoroughly
systematized in every department, and splendid results are being
accomplished. The church is in touch with the broader idea that
the best Christian service can be accomplished with better
physical and mental as well as moral development. Much attention
is paid to the social life, and yet nothing for a moment
overshadows the foundation work of the organization, which is the
salvation of souls. Rev. Manson is a fluent, earnest speaker, who
studies life and its problems and with notable clearness shows
the relation of modern day conditions to the lessons that have
come down to us through the ages from the moral teachers of the
past.

Rev. Manson was married June 24, 1889, to Miss Mary Elizabeth
Ferguson, of Hamilton, Ontario, and their children are: Berith
Du Val, of New York city; and Vera Charleson, Allena Conklin,
and Leslie Worden, all at home. At this point it would be almost
tautological to enter into any series of statements as showing
Rev. Manson to be a man of broad intelligence and genuine public
spirit, for these have been shadowed forth between the lines
of this review. Strong in his individuality, he never lacks
the courage of his convictions but there are as dominating
elements in this individuality a lively human sympathy and an
abiding charity, which, as taken in connection with the sterling
integrity and honor of his character, have naturally gained for
him the respect and confidence of men.


REV. THOMAS JOSEPH MACMAHON.

One of the most able Catholic educators in Quebec province, a
man sincere, straightforward and reliable in the discharge of
the duties and obligations of life, most earnest and consecrated
in his work as a priest of the Society of Jesus, is Rev. Thomas
Joseph MacMahon, rector of Loyola College in Montreal. He has
been connected with this institution since 1912 and, constantly
following high ideals and guiding his actions by sound and
practical judgment, has been an important factor in its later
development and growth.

Father MacMahon was born at Hamilton, Ontario, December 12, 1874,
and received his primary education at the Catholic separate
schools in that city, later attending Hamilton high school and
St. Mary’s College, Montreal. Entering the Society of Jesus in
1895, he was sent to St. Louis, Missouri, where he received a
long Jesuit training in philosophy and theology, after which he
returned to Montreal, where he was ordained to the priesthood in
1910. Father MacMahon then went to England for further training
preparatory to taking the position of prefect of studies at
Loyola College, a post which he assumed in May, 1912. He proved
a capable educator and an excellent disciplinarian and in 1913
was advanced to the position of rector of the college. This
is a large and growing institution conducted by the Jesuit
Fathers for English-speaking Catholic boys and has an enviable
reputation throughout eastern Canada for the thoroughness of its
training and the comprehensive courses of study offered. The
high standard of efficiency, traditional in the school, has
been maintained under Father MacMahon’s able management and the
institution has made a creditable growth during the period of his
incumbency. He has made himself thoroughly conversant with the
affairs of the college and is rapidly pushing forward the work
on the construction of the new buildings at Notre Dame de Grace,
Sherbrooke Street, Montreal West, where the institution will be
moved within the next two years.

Besides being an able educator and a farsighted and reliable
business man, Father MacMahon is known also as a preacher of
rare ability and power and has filled most of the pulpits in
Montreal and the vicinity in a creditable manner. He has made
his talents, powers and abilities forces in the spread of the
Catholic religion in this province and has accomplished a great
deal of beneficial and lasting work among the students of Loyola
College and the people of the city. He has their love in large
measure, while his upright and honorable character and his life
of service has gained him the respect and esteem of people of all
denominations.


ROBERT WARD SHEPHERD.

An age of intense commercial activity calls forth the powers
of men who can grapple with new conditions and utilize the
opportunities that come with successive changes. Adequate to the
demands of the hour, Robert Ward Shepherd occupied a central
place on the stage of business activity at Montreal for more
than a half century. The high ideals which he cherished found
embodiment in practical effort for their adoption. He was
no dreamer, for his theories were such as could be put into
successful execution and his business record balanced up with the
principles of truth and honor. As the president of the Ottawa
River Navigation Company, he was known to thousands of people in
Ottawa valley and he also figured in financial circles as vice
president of the Molson Bank.

Of English birth, Mr. Shepherd came to Montreal immediately
after his arrival in Canada and soon entered into active
connection with the Ottawa River Navigation Company, then under
the presidency of Sir George Simpson. For some years he was
captain of one of the boats of the line but was called into the
office to fill a position demanding executive force and keen
discrimination. He was made manager and from that post rose to
the position of president, in which connection he continued until
his demise. Under his guidance the business of the Ottawa River
Navigation Company continuously developed along substantial
lines, and progressiveness was as manifest in the care of its
patrons and the equipment of its vessels as in any other line
or field of business. Those who met Mr. Shepherd found him
genial, courteous and obliging, and at the same time he possessed
the keen sagacity and clear reasoning so indispensable to the
successful conduct of any enterprise. Becoming interested in
Molson’s Bank, he was elected vice president and director,
filling the former position for more than twenty years. In all
business affairs he was clear-headed, farsighted, and the record
which he left behind him for integrity and sterling worth is one
which might be envied by all.

Mr. Shepherd was married to Miss Mary C. de Les Derniers of the
province of Quebec, and they became the parents of nine children:
Robert W., who died in 1912; Miss F. A. R.; Dr. Francis J.;
Sherringham A.; A. Maude M., who is the widow of Haldane Haswell;
Esther E., who married Dr. W. A. Molson and is now deceased;
Beatrice H., who married Arthur Henshaw; Mary R., the widow of
George R. Robertson; and de Les Derniers. The mother passed away
in 1902, having for seven years survived Mr. Shepherd, whose
death occurred August 29, 1895, when he was seventy-six years of
age.

Mr. Shepherd was a member and one of the founders of St. George’s
church and in his Christian faith was found the root of his
activities in behalf of his fellowmen and of the principles which
governed his life. He belonged to the St. James Club and was
greatly interested in art, acting as vice president of the Art
Gallery of the city. He was one of the committee of management of
the Montreal General Hospital; was a member of the committee of
management of the Mackay Institution, and a generous supporter
of the Protestant Hospital for the Insane. He gave freely of his
means to various charitable institutions which seek to ameliorate
the hard conditions of life for the unfortunate. Duty and honor
were his watchwords and justice one of his strong characteristics.


JUDSON ALBERT DECEW.

Judson Albert DeCew, chemical engineer, whose identification with
leading chemical societies in this country and the United States
attests his higher professional standing, was born in Waterford,
Ontario, on the 14th of December, 1874. He is descended from
Captain John DeCew, a United Empire Loyalist, who served in
the War of 1812 and in whose house, at DeCew Falls near St.
Catharines, Ontario, Lieutenant Fitzgibbon and his soldiers were
quartered, when Laura Secord gave the warning which enabled them
to capture the United States forces under Colonel Boerstler.
Mr. DeCew’s parents are Thomas Howard and Valdora (Beemer)
DeCew, both of whom are living at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. He
was married on August 20, 1913, to Mabel Marshall, daughter of
John Marshall, educationist, of Weyburn, Saskatchewan. She is a
graduate in arts of Queen’s University with the class of 1910.

After finishing his early education at Woodstock College, he
attended the School of Practical Science of Toronto, graduating
in 1896. After spending four years in practical work he held a
fellowship in the University of Toronto in 1901 and took the
degree of Bachelor of Applied Science with the class of 1902.
In the same year he took a position as chemical engineer with
the Canada Paper Company, which he held until 1905. In 1906 Mr.
DeCew came to Montreal and established himself as a consulting
chemical engineer. In 1913 he organized the Process Engineers
Company, of which he is the president. He is the leading member
of the chemical engineering profession in Canada and one of its
most eminent representatives on the American continent. He is the
inventor of a number of important chemical processes, and his
name has become widely known as the author of articles relating
to the manufacture of paper, which have appeared from time to
time in technical journals. Mr. DeCew has delivered lectures
on the manufacture of paper and has been appointed on advisory
committees for technical researches. He has been a member of
the American Institute of Chemical Engineers since 1908 and an
associate member of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers since
1906. He is also a member of the American Society of Testing
Materials, the American Chemical Society, the Society of Chemical
Industry, and the American Wood Preservers Association. Mr. DeCew
is a member of the Chemists Club, New York, and the Outremont
Golf Club and the University Club of Montreal.

[Illustration: JUDSON A. DECEW]


FISCHEL SHIP.

A position of leadership is accorded Fischel Ship in Jewish
circles in Montreal because of his active and prominent
identification with commercial, educational and benevolent
projects. He was for many years a very successful business man,
and as he has prospered he has given generously in support of
measures tending to the intellectual progress of his people, and
generous aid to those in need of assistance. He was born January
6, 1853, in Paranshoff, Poland, a son of Abraham Jacob and Pearl
(Leah) Ship. The father engaged in the tailoring business in
Poland, and it was in that country that Fischel Ship pursued his
education. He was a young man of nineteen years when he crossed
the Atlantic, making his way to Montreal in 1872. He had received
business training under his father and had become thoroughly
acquainted with the tailoring trade. Following his arrival in
this city he established a merchant tailoring business and as the
years went on won a liberal patronage, bringing him a gratifying
competence. At the time that he entered trade circles of Montreal
there were only five merchants in his line of business in the
city. Throughout the succeeding period up to the time of his
retirement he always managed to keep in the front rank among
the merchant tailors of Montreal, receiving a liberal patronage
from the best class of citizens, because of excellent style and
workmanship, which were features of his shop, and his thoroughly
reliable business methods. He always carried on business on St.
Lawrence Main Street, but about eleven years ago retired from
active connection with commercial interests to enjoy a well
earned and well merited rest.

Mr. Ship, however, continues his activities along other lines
resulting directly in the benefit of his fellowmen. He is
chairman of the building committee, governor, trustee, and
member of the relief and cemetery committees of the Baron De
Hirsch Institute. He is a life governor of the Montreal General
Hospital. For a quarter of a century he has been a trustee of
the McGill College Avenue synagogue, was vice president of the
synagogue for four years and has always been chairman of the
building committee. He is most loyal to his religious belief and
at all times has been generous and helpful toward the unfortunate.

On the 10th of February, 1869, Mr. Ship was united in marriage to
Miss Flora Blumenthal, a daughter of Phillip Blumenthal, who was
the first owner of the coaches in Ozerkoff, Poland. Unto Mr. and
Mrs. Ship have been born three children: Leah, now the wife of C.
Sisenwain; Ray, now Mrs. S. P. Myers; Abe Phillip, who is engaged
in the practice of medicine in Montreal and who married Leah
Sessenwain, of this city. In politics Mr. Ship has always been a
liberal, nor has he sought office as a reward for party fealty.
However, for the past sixteen years he has been justice of the
peace for the island of Montreal and has discharged his duties
with promptness, fidelity and impartiality. He is a veteran
of the Odd Fellows Association and also a member of the Royal
Arcanum. He has never had occasion to regret his determination to
come to the new world, for here he has found the opportunities
which he sought and has gradually worked his way upward until he
has won place among the substantial and highly respected citizens
of Montreal.


RENE HEBERT, M. D.

Dr. René Hébert, successfully engaged in the practice of medicine
in Montreal, in which city he was born October 2, 1869, is a
son of Charles P. Hébert, one of the founders of the wholesale
grocery house of Hudon, Hébert & Company. He was educated at
Plateau Academy, Montreal College and Laval University, being
graduated from the last named with the degree of M. D. in 1892.
During the succeeding year he was an interne at Notre Dame
Hospital and then went abroad for further study, spending two
years in study and research work in Paris, specializing in
diseases of the heart and lungs.

In 1895 Dr. Hébert began active practice in Montreal, opening an
office on St. Denis Street. He is superintendent of St. Paul’s
Hospital, physician to Notre Dame Hospital, and a professor in
the medical and dental departments of Laval University. His
professional connections are important, and it is recognized
that he is a thorough and discriminating student and most
conscientious in the performance of his professional duties.

Dr. Hébert married Miss Alice Auger. Their religious faith is
that of the Roman Catholic church. Aside from his professional
interests, Dr. Hébert is a director of the wholesale grocery firm
of Hudon, Hébert & Company. In strictly professional lines he is
connected with La Société de Médicine and Officier d’Académie.
At all times he holds to high standards, and wide reading is
constantly augmenting his skill and efficiency, manifested in the
successful manner with which he copes with the intricate problems
that are continually confronting the physician.


CLEMENT ANTOINE GUERTIN.

Of old and distinguished pioneer stock of French extraction
Clément Antoine Guertin upholds the traditions of family
prominence as one of the most able legal representatives of the
Montreal and provincial bar. Although he has been in practice
for not many years he enjoys a reputation second to none, as he
has proven his ability in connection with important interests.
Not only is Mr. Guertin well versed in the letter of the law and
the principles that affect its administration, not only is he
a deep thinker and logical reasoner, but he has an insight into
the conduct of human beings which permits him to clearly define
cause and effect in human actions, and he therefore readily
penetrates to the root of such problems as demand legal help for
solution. He has long been recognized as one of the able general
practitioners in the city, and his services are in large demand,
resulting in a gratifying measure of financial returns.

Clément Antoine Guertin was born at St. Antoine, in the county
of Verchères, province of Quebec, on the 22d of November, 1870,
a son of Léon Guertin, an agriculturist of St. Antoine, who was
born in 1817 and passed away in 1876, and Marie Louise Euchariste
(Geoffrion) Guertin, a native of Varennes. The first of the
family in Canada was the famous and well known Guertin, called
Louis Le Sabotier, who was born in 1635, a son of Louis and
Georgette (LeDuc) Guertin, from Daumeray, near Angers, France.
He married first at Montreal on January 26, 1659, Elizabeth Le
Camus, and second, Catherine Roy. Among his children were Louis,
Pierre, Paul and others. Paul Guertin, alias Chertin, alias
Diertin, was a son of Louis, born in Montreal on the 2d of May,
1680. At Contrecoeur, on the 19th of March, 1702, he married
Madeleine Plouffe and among their children were Pierre, Paul and
François. The latter married Catherine Dudevoir at St. Antoine
in 1745 and among their children were Pierre, Joseph, François
and others. Joseph, born March 6, 1755, married Marie Louise
Circé, called St. Michel, at St. Antoine in 1777 and among their
children was Pierre, born October 9, 1781. He married Marguerite
Duhamel, who bore her husband the following children: Pierre,
Noël, Léon, Marguerite, Flavien, Alexis, Calixte, Zoé and Louis.
Léon Guertin, third son of Pierre, was born March 12, 1817. His
first union was with Théotis Brodeur, who bore him the following
children: Octavie, Pauline, Léopold, Stanislas and Mélanie.
His second wife was Marie Louise Euchariste Geoffrion and the
children of this marriage were Joseph, Louis, Marie Louise and
Clément Antoine. Léon Guertin, the father of our subject, is the
sixth in direct descent from Louis Guertin, Le Sabotier. Pierre
Guertin, the grandfather of our subject, and his sons, Pierre,
Noël and Léon, took part in the battle of St. Denis, November 22,
1837. Louis Guertin, a brother of our subject, is father of the
Holy Cross Congregation, a director of Memramcook University of
New Brunswick, and took in Rome in philosophy and theology the
degree of Doctor cum maxima laude, also taking scientific work
at Harvard. A brother of the mother of our subject, Father L.
Geoffrion, of the Holy Cross Congregation, was for fifteen years
director of St. Laurent College, near Montreal.

Clément Antoine Guertin received a thorough and varied education.
He attended the St. Antoine village school, the St. Denis
Commercial College and also took courses in commercial English,
French and classical studies at St. Laurent. He received the
degree of B. L. in 1893 from the law faculty of Laval University,
in 1896 became LL. B. and in January, 1897, was made an advocate.
He has ever since followed his profession successfully in
Montreal and as his experience has expanded has become one of
the few successful lawyers whose reputation marks them for
distinction.

On the 24th of April, 1901, at Montreal, Mr. Guertin was married
to Miss Marie Anne Josephine Lamontagne, a daughter of G. A.
Lamontagne, a merchant tailor of Montreal and Malvina (Beauchamp)
Lamontagne. They had one daughter, Simonne, born April 16, 1902,
who died July 2d of the same year. The mother passed away on June
26, 1912.

From September, 1910, to May, 1912, Mr. Guertin was a member
of the Montreal council of the bar and from May, 1911, to May,
1912, a member of the provincial council. His club relations
are with the St. Denis, Délorimier and the Union du Commerce of
Montreal. His faith is that of the Roman Catholic church. He has
secured one of the most exclusive and representative practices in
Montreal, his success being the best evidence of his capability.
His pleas are always characterized by terse logic and lucid
presentation, and he always has a decisive conviction as to the
rights of the question he represents. It is his ambition to
make his native talents subserve the demands of the social and
business conditions of the day, and he stands today as a splendid
representative of a lawyer to whom personal prosperity is but
secondary in importance and who considers many ideal elements
more vital in the making up of human existence. His industry and
energy have found a reward which is based on a distinguished name
and accomplishments rather than incidental prosperity.


WILLIAM SUTHERLAND MAXWELL.

William Sutherland Maxwell, an architect of Montreal, whose
high professional standing is indicated by the large number
of fine structures which stand as monuments to his skill and
ability, brought to bear at the outset of his professional career
the broad knowledge gained from comprehensive and thorough
training. Montreal numbers him among her native sons, his birth
having here occurred on the 14th of November, 1874, his parents
being E. J. and Johanna (MacBean) Maxwell. In the acquirement
of his education William Sutherland Maxwell, after attending
the Montreal high school, went to Boston, Massachusetts, for
professional training and afterward entered the Ecole des Beaux
Arts of Paris, France. His training was thus received from men
eminent in the profession in America and in Europe, and in 1898
he was admitted to the Quebec Architects Association. Beginning
the practice of his profession he formed a partnership with his
brother, Edward Maxwell, and in his chosen life work he has made
steady advancement, his unfolding powers and increasing ability
gaining for him distinction and success. In 1909 he was elected
a member of the Royal Canadian Academy and in 1908 was chosen a
councillor of the Association of Architects of the province of
Quebec. He is president of the Province of Quebec Association
of Architects for 1914. While practicing his profession in
association with his brother there stand as monuments to their
skill and ability many fine structures not only in the east but
also in the west. Among the works executed by them are the Hotel
Alexandra at Winnipeg, for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
the Canadian Pacific Railway station at Winnipeg, the residence
of C. R. Hosmer, the Alexandra Hospital for Infectious Diseases,
the Nurses Home for the Royal Victorian Hospital, the monument
to Lord Strathcona and South African soldiers of which George
W. Hill was the sculptor, the monument to the Hon. John Young,
of which Philip Hébert was the sculptor, the bank buildings for
the Bank of Montreal, Molson’s Bank, the Royal Bank and the
buildings of the Montreal General Hospital. They were also the
architects of the Government House in Regina, Saskatchewan,
the Calgary Hotel for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, at
Calgary, and the Montreal Art Association’s new building in
Montreal. No more definite indication of Mr. Maxwell’s high
professional standing can be given than the list of these
buildings which have become tangible factors in the improvement
of various cities.

[Illustration: WILLIAM S. MAXWELL]

In May, 1902, occurred the marriage of Mr. Maxwell and Miss Mary
Ellis Bolles, of New York, who is well known in connection with
charitable and philanthropic work, being now a councillor of the
Children’s Aid Society. He is a member of the St. James Club, the
Arts Club, the Pen and Pencil Club and the Kanawaki Golf Club.
The family residence is at No. 716 Pine Avenue, Montreal. Mr.
Maxwell has concentrated his energies upon his profession, and he
has every reason to be proud of the fact that he has been elected
to membership in the Ecole des Beaux Arts Society of Paris. He
was president of the Arts Club of Montreal for 1913 and is so
serving for 1914.


HENRI ROY.

With intense activity well directed, with untiring energy,
business ability, resourcefulness and controlled ambition, Henri
Roy has reached a position of importance in the affairs of La
Société des Artisans Canadiens-Français, of which he has been
secretary and treasurer since 1892.

His influence has affected the policies and the direction of
developments of this great fraternal insurance company of
Montreal, and the years of his connection with it have proven
mutually useful and beneficial.

Mr. Roy was born September 11, 1864, in St. Alexandre, near
St. Jean, Quebec, and acquired his education in the public
schools and in St. Cesaire Commercial College, fitting himself
in the latter institution for the business career which he had
determined upon.

When he left his native city he went to Quebec where for some
years he was connected with a wholesale firm. In 1888 he came to
Montreal and until 1899 was associated with the wholesale house
of Hodgson, Sumner & Company.

Upon coming to Montreal in 1888, Mr. Roy began his connection
with La Société des Canadiens-Français as an accountant,
employing his evenings in this capacity. Advancement came
rapidly, for Mr. Roy proved himself a farsighted, resourceful
and discriminating business man who could be relied upon to
carry forward to successful completion whatever he undertook.
In 1892 he was elected secretary and treasurer of the society,
positions which he has filled with ability and distinction since
that time. The work has made continued demands upon his tact,
his versatility, his administrative ability, and these demands
have been met fully and completely, Mr. Roy being today one of
the most prominent and widely known officials of the company he
represents.

In 1888 when he became associated with the society it had
accumulated funds of ten thousand seven hundred thirty-one
dollars and ten cents, and a membership of one thousand three
hundred thirty-two, limited to the island of Montreal; today
(1914) its accumulated funds are two million three hundred
thirty-seven thousand three hundred eighty-two dollars and
seventy-two cents, its membership numbers thirty-nine thousand
ninety-four and its field of action covers all American territory
where there are French-Canadians.

May 6, 1896, Mr. Roy married Miss Celina Canty of Bathurst, New
Brunswick, and to them have come a family of eleven children,
seven of whom are living, Berthe, Pierre, Olive, Jeanne, Celina,
Louis and Victoria.

Mr. Roy is well and favorably known in Montreal, where for more
than a quarter of a century he has made his home. His success
and the standards by which it has been obtained have gained for
him the respect of his business associates, and his sterling
qualities of character the esteem and good-will of many friends.


LUDGER GRAVEL.

Ludger Gravel is well known in business circles of Montreal
as a dealer in carriage maker’s and blacksmith’s supplies, as
president of Société des Artisans Canadiens-Français and also
as a successful manufacturer’s agent, connected in this way
with some of the most important industrial concerns in Canada,
the United States and Europe. The industry and the spirit of
enterprise, progress and initiative which have brought him
success have also been factors in his conduct of his extensive
interests and place him today among the men of marked ability and
substantial worth in this community.

Mr. Gravel was born in 1864, at St. Raphael, Ile Bizard, Canada,
and acquired his education in Montreal, beginning his business
career immediately after laying aside his books. He was for eight
months with Thomas Wilson & Company of this city and at the end
of that time became connected with P. P. Mailloux at 223 St.
Paul Street, with whom he remained over twenty years, rising
during that time to a position of weight and responsibility
and proving himself a farsighted, capable and progressive
business man. Having shown his worth and his capability, Mr.
Gravel eventually engaged in business for himself, establishing
the extensive business which he now conducts. Under his able
management this has become a large and important enterprise and
it is still growing, for Mr. Gravel is constantly extending the
field of his activity and forming new commercial relations. In
addition to his retail business he is also acting as exclusive
agent in Montreal for a number of manufacturing firms in Canada,
the United States and Europe, and his important connections
along this line are conclusive proof of his prominence and high
standing in business circles. Among the firms which he represents
may be mentioned the following: Ontario Asphalt Block Company,
Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario; The Standard Paint & Varnish Works,
Ltd., Windsor, Ontario; The Frank Miller Company, New York, New
York; Windsor Turned Goods Company, Ltd., Windsor, Ontario; The
Conboy Carriage Company, Ltd., Toronto, Ontario; The Neverslip
Manufacturing Company, New Brunswick, New Jersey; Sem. Lacaille,
Nominingue, Quebec; Meilink’s Home Deposit Vaults, Toledo,
Ohio; Propriétaire de l’Huile Balmoral; James Boyd & Brothers,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Jacob Maas & Company, New
Orleans, Louisiana.

Mr. Gravel became connected with Société des Artisans
Canadiens-Français in 1903 when he was elected a director, and
his ability and executive skill soon commanded for him a place
of power in this organization. He was made second vice president
in 1904 and first vice president in 1906 and in 1910 was elected
president, a position which he has held since that time. The
demands which it has made upon his energy, his enterprise
and his executive ability have been completely met, and the
fortunes of the society under his hands have been constantly
prosperous. He has been a member of the Chamber of Commerce since
its organization and at present is one of its directors. His
membership in mutual, charitable, antiquarian, social, political
and sporting clubs is extensive and in a number of them he holds
official position. However his business never suffers from these
connections and his time and attention are so distributed that he
proves a valuable member in all of the organizations.

On May 26, 1891, in Montreal Mr. Gravel was married to Laura Roy,
the daughter of Alfred Roy. Of the fourteen children born to
Mr. and Mrs. Gravel, six are now living as follows, Olympe, L.
Pierre, Germaine, Emelia, Lucette and Simone.

With the extension of his interests Mr. Gravel’s powers have
continually developed, his insight has deepened, his view
broadened and with the passing years he has become a man of
power and prominence, finding in the field of business the best
scope for his interests and activities. He is a devout member of
the Roman Catholic church and his upright life which has been
guided by its principles, has brought him prominence, substantial
fortune and the respect and esteem of many friends.


SEVERIN LETOURNEAU, K. C.

Severin Letourneau, who has advanced beyond the ranks of the many
and stands among the able and successful few in the practice of
law and in liberal leadership, is a native of St. Constant, born
on the 23d of May, 1871. His preliminary education acquired in
the Jacques Cartier Normal school, was supplemented by a course
in Laval University, in which he completed his law studies and
was graduated with the class of 1895. In July following he was
called to the bar and at once entered upon active practice of his
profession in which he has made continuous progress. Advancement
at the bar is proverbially slow and yet, no dreary novitiate
awaited Mr. Letourneau, who, during the eighteen years of his
practice has won a high reputation by reason of his broad legal
knowledge and the skill and ability in which he handles his
cases, mastering the points in evidence with the precision of
a military commander who marshals his troops on the field of
battle. In 1906 he was appointed king’s counsel. He is today
practicing as a member of the firm of Pelletier, Letourneau &
Beaulieu, advocates, with a clientage that is extensive and
important.

Mr. Letourneau is prominently known as one of the leaders of
the liberal party and as the liberal organizer for the district
of Montreal has justified his appointment by the series of
brilliant successes that have been scored for the liberal party
in and around the city. He has rendered to his party service as a
tactician and he is now sitting for Hochelaga in the provincial
legislature, stanchly supporting Sir Lomer Gouin in his policy of
progressive legislation. Mr. Letourneau is also a member of the
Montreal Reform Club. He is a man of unfaltering determination,
carrying forward to successful completion whatever he undertakes,
whether in the field of law or politics. He stands stanchly for
the right as he sees it, and his position is never an equivocal
one.


CHARLES HAVILAND ROUTH.

Charles Haviland Routh, insurance broker, occupying a position
among the foremost representatives of insurance interests in the
Dominion, has in this direction, followed in the footsteps of his
father, the late John H. Routh, who was for a quarter century
agent at Montreal for the Western Assurance Company. Haviland L.
Routh, grandfather of Charles H. Routh, was also prominent in
insurance circles, being Canadian manager for the Royal Insurance
Company. Charles H. Routh was born and educated in this city
and throughout the period of his identification with business
interests has been connected with the insurance profession. He
is lacking in none of the qualities requisite for advancement
and success in his chosen calling, which has brought him a wide
business acquaintance. He is, however, perhaps, more widely
known as a yachtsman, having for some years been commodore of
the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club, of which he became a charter
member in 1891. Several times has he successfully defended the
Seawauhaka Cup and there are those who feel they know Mr. Routh
at his best when he is acting in that capacity, because of his
resourcefulness and the joy he feels in the sport. The Toronto
Telegram wrote of him; “He has been pitted against the best
skippers and the best boats that the United States can produce,
but has remained the same level-headed sailorman in all his
contests.” Aside from his connections with the Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht Club, he belongs to the Montreal Club and the Montreal
Curling Club. He is enthusiastic in his sports and equally so in
anything that he undertakes, his energy and interest carrying him
forward to the point of success whether it be along the line of
business or of pleasure.


JOSEPH LEON ST. JACQUES.

In no profession does advancement depend more surely upon
individual merit than in the practice of law. Comprehensive
knowledge of legal principles must constitute the foundation for
success which can only be won at the cost of earnest, persistent
effort and study. Recognizing this fact, Joseph Leon St. Jacques
has closely applied himself to the mastery of the principles
of jurisprudence and to the preparation of his cases, with a
result that he now has an extensive and representative clientele.
He practices in Montreal and has spent his entire life in the
province of Quebec, his birth having occurred at St. Hermas,
in the county of Two Mountains, July 13, 1877, his parents being
Joseph and Cazilde (Lafond) St. Jacques, the former a farmer of
St. Hermas. The grandfather, F. X. St. Jacques, was born at St.
Augustin, in the county of Two Mountains and resided for many
years in Ottawa, but is now deceased. The great-grandfather was
Captain Eustache Cheval dit St. Jacques of St. Augustin, who in
1837 remained loyal to the crown and in 1838 was presented a
sword in token of the recognition of his loyalty by Her Majesty,
Queen Victoria. The ancestors of the family have the name of
Cheval as well as St. Jacques.

[Illustration: JOSEPH L. ST. JACQUES]

In the acquirement of his education Joseph Leon St. Jacques
attended the Jacques Cartier Normal school from which he was
graduated with the class of 1897, obtaining the academic diploma.
He later entered Laval University in which he completed his
course in 1901, winning the degrees of LL. L. and LL. M. The
same year he was admitted to the bar and entered upon practice.
In the meantime, however, after leaving the normal school, he
had devoted some time to teaching. He began practice at Lachute,
where he had a few criminal cases, including the trial of Robert
Day, a murder case. After six years of practice in the country
district he came to Montreal and entered into partnership with
Mr. Gustave Lamothe, K. C. The firm of Lamothe, St. Jacques &
Lamothe has an extensive clientele, especially among religious
interests and municipal corporations. He is also a director of
some financial enterprises.

On the 19th of May, 1906, at St. Hermas, Mr. St. Jacques was
married to Miss Albertine Lafond, a daughter of Mathias Lafond,
a merchant and prominent citizen of his municipality. There
are four children in the St. Jacques family; Jacques, Jules,
Gustave and Alberte. The religious faith of the family is
that of the Catholic church. In politics Mr. St. Jacques is
a conservative and has taken an active part in the political
campaigns of Argenteuil and Two Mountains, being a recognized
leader in conservative ranks. He has ever preferred, however, to
concentrate his energies and efforts upon his law practice, which
is now extensive and important, placing him with the leading
representatives of the Montreal bar.


GEORGE HASTINGS.

George Hastings, who was born at Petite Cote, Quebec, in 1817,
died in July, 1865. His father was Thomas Hastings, who came from
Lexington, Massachusetts, to Petite Cote, where he bought land
and settled some time before the birth of Mr. Hastings. In this
connection it is interesting to mention that Petite Cote is now
divided into Fairmount and Rosemount and is a part of the city of
Montreal. The land is now mostly divided into building lots that
command good prices.

Thomas Hastings, father of George Hastings, had married Cynthia
Baker, of Burlington, Vermont, and they lived for many years
in their home at Petite Cote, where their five children, three
sons and two daughters, were born and brought up. The sons’
names were: George; Thomas, who is mentioned elsewhere in this
work; and Horatio, the youngest, who died unmarried in 1899. The
daughters were Mrs. Clark Fitts and Mrs. Ryan.

George Hastings, of this record, married in 1847 Margaret
Ogilvie, a sister of A. W., John and W. W. Ogilvie, whose careers
are mentioned at greater length in another part of this history.
Mr. and Mrs. George Hastings spent their entire married life in
their home on a farm at Petite Cote. There their ten children
received the training of their early lives. Of these children six
were sons and four were daughters. Thomas, the eldest, married
Jane Kydd, formerly the widow of William Nesbitt. They reside
at Rosemount boulevard and have no children. William, the next
son, with George, the third son, after considerable business
experience established The Lake of the Woods Milling Company.
The former married, in 1884, Georgina Ure, of Montreal. He died
in 1903, leaving his widow and two sons, who live in this city.
George managed the western branch of the business, from which he
resigned in October, 1913. He married in 1886, Margaret Anderson,
of Ayr, Ontario. They live in Winnipeg and have a family of two
sons and two daughters. Robert, the fourth son, is with The Lake
of the Woods Milling Company and lives also in the west, making
his present home in Qu’ Appelle. He is unmarried. Alexander, the
fifth son, was also connected with The Lake of the Woods Milling
Company. He died in St. John, New Brunswick, where he had charge
for several years of the local branch of the company. He married,
in 1898, Maud Anderson, of Montreal, and his widow is living.
Their only child died when one month of age. John Clark, the
youngest son, died unmarried in 1883. Helen Watson and Cynthia
Baker, the two elder daughters, died in 1912, the latter in
January and the former in May of that year. The third daughter,
Frances, married Francis Jordan, of Goderich, Ontario, in 1885.
Mr. Jordan died in 1907, but his widow, son and daughter are
living. Maria, the fourth and youngest daughter of the family,
is living and unmarried. The family have always been connected
with the American Presbyterian church. The Hastings are well
known among the old residents of Montreal, for it is almost a
century since Thomas Hastings settled upon the farm which now is
a portion of the metropolis.


JAMES ALFRED DALE.

In educational circles the name of Professor James Alfred Dale
is well known. His ability has gained him prominence and his
position as a leader among the educationists of the country is
indicated in the fact that he was honored with election to the
position of treasurer of the Dominion Educational Association.
Since November, 1907, he has held the Macdonald professorship of
education in McGill University. A native of Birmingham, England,
he was born in 1874, the eldest son of J. A. Dale. He attended
King Edward VI School at Camp Hill, and afterward entered the
Mason University College, now the University of Birmingham, and
subsequently became classical exhibitioner in Merton College at
Oxford, which conferred upon him the Master of Arts degree.

James Alfred Dale has remained continuously in the educational
field, being lecturer on literature and education in connection
with the Oxford Extension Delegacy from 1902 until 1908, and
also to the universities of Liverpool and Manchester. In
1902-3 he was tutor in the Borough Road Training College, and
in November, 1907, was called to the Macdonald professorship
of education in McGill University. The steps in his orderly
progression are thus easily discernible and he stands today
among the eminent educationists of the Dominion, his ability
being acknowledged by colleagues and contemporaries. He has the
power of imparting clearly, concisely and readily to others the
knowledge that he has acquired, and on the lecture platform he
is a most interesting and entertaining as well as instructive
speaker. He was a delegate to the convention of the Dominion
Educational Association of Victoria, British Columbia, in
1909. He has served as treasurer of the association and was
secretary of the convention held at Ottawa in July, 1913. In
May, 1911, he was appointed a member of the council of public
instruction for the province of Quebec, and he has come to be a
member of most of the committees on Protestant education in the
province. Soon after coming out, he was elected president of the
Protestant Teachers Association of the province of Quebec and on
relinquishing office in 1912 was elected first vice president.
His studious habits have made him a man of scholarly attainments,
and he is continually seeking out new methods that will render
his service as an educationist more effective. His ideas have
received the indorsement of prominent contemporaries in this
field of labor and have been adopted to the benefit of various
institutions of learning. He agrees with Kant that “the object
of education is to train each individual to reach the highest
perfection possible for him” and that spirit has been manifest
throughout his professional career. He has endeavored in his
teaching to develop capacity and to impart knowledge which shall
prove of practical benefit and value throughout life. He was
instrumental in founding the University Settlement of Montreal
in 1910 and has been its president since that time. This was the
first settlement in the city, and its success is to be measured
not by itself but by the influence it has exerted in the general
movement toward social reform. He has taken a prominent part in
movements for adult education and was one of the first members
of the committee of the Workers’ Educational Association, which
has succeeded in grouping together over twenty-five hundred trade
unions, cooperative societies, etc., and educational bodies in
England. At the present time every university in the country is
undertaking working-class education under the auspices of the
association. At the formation of the City Improvement League he
was appointed its first honorary secretary but was compelled by
pressure of work to relinquish the active duties of office. He
edited the proceedings of the convention of the League in 1910.
As literary correspondent of the Canadian Club he is editing its
proceedings for the third year.

In 1904 Professor Dale was married to Miss Margaret Butler, a
daughter of J. Holden Butler, of Birmingham, and they reside at
No. 771 University Street, in Montreal. Not only as an instructor
in the classroom and as an enthusiastic advocate of extending
educational facilities to all is Professor Dale well known. His
contributions to the literature of the profession have made his
name a familiar one not only in this country but throughout the
American continent and in Great Britain. He is the author of
many articles which have appeared in various publications and
which have treated of literary as well as educational subjects,
and he has published in Germany a volume entitled History of
English Literature. His name was suggested in various quarters
when British Columbia was looking for a president for its new
university. A modern philosopher has said: “Not the good that
comes to us but the good that comes to the world through us is
the measure of our success,” and judged by this standard the life
of Professor Dale is a most successful one.


GEORGE HUGH ALEXANDER MONTGOMERY, B. C. L., K. C.

George Hugh Alexander Montgomery is one of the most successful
members of the Montreal bar, of which he is an ex-councillor.
He has successfully pleaded cases in all the courts of Canada
and before the privy council and has for some years occupied
an enviable place at the bar of this city. He was born at
Philipsburg, P. Q., February 5, 1874, a son of the Rev. Hugh and
E. M. (Slack) Montgomery. The family being one appreciative of
the benefits and value of education, liberal opportunities in
that direction were afforded him, and after attending Bishop’s
College School at Lennoxville, P. Q., he entered the University
of Bishop’s College, where he pursued a classical course and won
the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1893. Four years later he was
graduated with the B. C. L. degree from McGill University, having
thus thoroughly qualified for the active practice of law, which
he had determined to make his life work. He became an advocate in
1898 and since that time has successfully followed his profession
in Montreal, his clientage being one of growing importance and
volume. Since May, 1905, he has been solicitor for the Montreal
Light, Heat & Power Company, and has had many other important
professional connections. In 1909 he was created king’s counsel.
His work in the courts has shown him to be largely a master of
the principles of jurisprudence and also possessed of the power
to present his cause clearly, cogently and logically. His ability
as an advocate is acknowledged by contemporaries and colleagues.

Mr. Montgomery is the owner of Lakeside Stock Farm at
Philipsburg, Quebec, the home of some of the finest Ayrshire
cattle and Clydesdale horses in the Dominion. Modern in its
improvements, with fine natural advantages, this farm contains
two hundred and fifty acres of the finest arable soil; for which
most of the eastern township farms are noted, as well as ample
additional acreage to meet the requirements of a successful stock
farm.

Mr. Montgomery has for more than twenty years been extensively
interested in farming operations, and from time to time has added
to his holdings, in the eastern townships, which now comprise
more than seven hundred acres. It was more than ten years ago
that he started in to breed the best in pure-bred Ayrshire
cattle, and while finding all the recreation and entertainment
sought by a gentleman farmer, the project has been conducted on a
business as well as a scientific basis with gratifying results.
Stock from Lakeside Stock Farm have successfully contested in the
show ring with the best herds in Canada. Equally as high class
are the Clydesdale horses owned and bred at this farm.

In 1913 Mr. Montgomery completed his beautiful country residence
on Missisquoi Bay near Philipsburg. Modern in its appointments,
the structure is of field stone up to the ground floor, above
which it is of Elizabethan style, and from its site overlooking
Lake Champlain, comprises one of the most attractive homes in
that section.

[Illustration: GEORGE H. A. MONTGOMERY]

In June, 1909, was celebrated the marriage of Mr. Montgomery and
Miss Gwendoline Baptist, a daughter of the late John Baptist,
of Three Rivers, P. Q. Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery have one son. In
religious faith Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery are Anglicans, while
socially they are well known in the best circles of the city.
Mr. Montgomery has membership relations with the Mount Royal,
University, St. James, Montreal and Montreal Jockey Clubs, as
well as the Quebec Garrison Club. His profession is constantly
making greater demands upon his time and energies, yet he finds
opportunities for other obligations and duties and for the
pleasures of life, thus maintaining a well balanced character.


JOSEPH PHILLIPE BEAUDRY.

An excellent example of the aggressive type of a business man,
and one well known in real-estate circles of Montreal, is Joseph
P. Beaudry, manager of the Beaudry Realty Company, No. 402,
McGill building.

Mr. Beaudry comes from one of the oldest families in the
Dominion, dating back to 1629, and the numerous branches of it
probably could be traced back to show relationship, where, in
many cases at this time, no family connection is supposed to
exist.

Joseph P. Beaudry was born in Ottawa, Ontario, a son of Joseph
and Alphonsine (Valiquette) Beaudry. The father, a wood
manufacturer, was born at Three Rivers, while the mother was a
native of Quebec.

Reared in his native town, Mr. Beaudry after attending school
there, completed his educational training by taking a commercial
course. Taking up the printing business, he began at the
bottom and was gradually advanced from one capacity to another
of greater importance, successfully filling the positions of
foreman, superintendent, manager and traveling representative for
some of the largest printing houses in Montreal. While he had
become well known in this line of business and enjoyed a high
standing among those connected with it, Mr. Beaudry concluded
that the real-estate business afforded better opportunities, and
in 1909 he decided to enter it. The wisdom of his judgment in
this move has been fully shown in the success that has come to
him. He has formed a number of successful real-estate companies
and has come to be known as a shrewd judge of realty values.

The Beaudry Realty Company, of which he is manager, is generally
known to carry the largest list of city lots and property among
the French real-estate firms in the city. This firm’s extensive
clientele is not confined to Montreal, but branches out into a
great many towns throughout the province of Quebec.

Mr. Beaudry is a director of seven different real-estate
companies, all limited concerns and formed by him. He is a
member of the Canadian Club, also the Automobile Club, belongs
as well to the Sixty-fifth Regiment and holds membership in
the Commercial Travellers Association. In political matters
his interest is that of a business man, and he votes with the
conservative party, while in his religious connection he is a
Roman Catholic.

On May 25, 1897, he was married to Alexina Senecal, a daughter of
Adolphe and Cordelia (Colletts) Senecal. Mr. Beaudry’s children
are Alexina, Gabrielle, Guillaume, Jean-Rene and Raoul.

He has earned for himself a reputation as a careful man of
business, and in his dealing is known for his prompt and
honorable methods which have brought him success.


REV. JOHN E. DONNELLY.

Rev. John E. Donnelly, who since 1891 has been rector of St.
Anthony’s parish, Montreal, one of the largest Irish Catholic
congregations in the city, was born in this city, February 22,
1861, a son of the late Charles and Margaret (McAfee) Donnelly.
He acquired his education in the local grammar schools and
later entered Ste. Thérèse College, from which he was graduated
with the degree of B. A. in the class of 1880. He afterward
attended the Grand Seminary, where he received his theological
training, graduating with the class of 1883. He was ordained in
the following year and after spending three years as private
secretary to Archbishop Fabre became connected with St. Anthony’s
church as curate. He was made parish priest in 1891 and he
has since had spiritual jurisdiction over the twelve thousand
families which go to make up this large Irish Catholic parish
in Montreal. St. Anthony’s church was founded in April, 1884,
and the first rector was Joseph U. Leclerc. The present church
building was erected in 1889 and the parish house in 1901. The
church property is ably administered, Father Donnelly proving
himself a capable, farsighted and energetic business man as well
as a zealous, sincere and untiring servant of God.

Father Donnelly is an honorary member of the Shamrock Lacrosse
Club and a great patron of athletics, and is familiarly and
lovingly known as “Father John” among the people to whom his
singleness of purpose, his high-mindedness and his constant
geniality have so greatly endeared him. The Montreal Herald
calls him “A skilled musician, a good preacher and a man justly
considered a leader among the Irish Catholic clergy in the city.”


WILLIAM STIVEN PATERSON.

The story of the life of William Stiven Paterson is the story
of honest industry and thrift. It is the record of a strong
individuality, sure of itself, stable in purpose, quick in
perception, swift in decision, energetic and persistent in
action. A native of Dundee, Scotland, born April 16, 1841, Mr.
Paterson was but one year old when brought to this country by
his father, James Paterson, who lived in Upper Canada and there
engaged on the river Humber, in the manufacture of blankets. He
afterward removed to near Meaford, Ontario, where he engaged in
farming, and there he died.

The public-school system of Canada afforded William S. Paterson
his educational opportunities. After leaving home he spent
one year in the oil fields of Pennsylvania, and then came to
Montreal and eventually with the late J. T. Wilson formed the
firm of Wilson, Paterson & Company of which he remained an
active member until his death. The business developed as the
years passed, owing to the progressive methods instituted in its
conduct, and prosperity attended the labors of the partners.

In Montreal, in 1875, occurred the marriage of William S.
Paterson, and Miss Electa C. Childs, daughter of Charles
Childs, who came from Massachusetts in 1851 and engaged in the
retail shoe business in Montreal. He became the pioneer in the
manufacture of shoe lasts in this city and built up an extensive
trade, in which he continued until his death in January, 1888.
Mr. and Mrs. Paterson had a family of five children: Kate
Elizabeth, who became the wife of R. B. Ross, Jr., secretary of
the Mount Royal Milling Company, by whom she has three children;
Dr. Robert C. Paterson, who is married and has two children;
Charles S., a missionary in Calcutta, India; Arthur L., of
The Wilson-Paterson Company, and who has two children; and E.
Russell, secretary of the Boy Scouts.

Mr. Paterson was interested in outdoor sports, especially in
fishing, and was a member of the Little Cascapedia Fishing Club
and as a devotee of golf, a member of Westmount Golf Club. He
belonged to the American Presbyterian church, in which he served
as a trustee and elder, and his life was actuated by high and
honorable principles. His record measured up to exalted standards
of manhood and citizenship and when death called him on the 2d of
June, 1907, he left behind him not only an excellent competence
but an honored name. He never allowed personal interests or
ambition to dwarf his public spirit or his activities, and he
was prominent as a man whose constantly expanding powers took
him from humble surroundings to fields of large enterprise and
continually broadening opportunities.


REV. GEORGE DALY, C. SS. R.

Rev. George Daly, who since 1912 has been rector of St. Anne’s
parish in Montreal, discharging his manifold duties in this
connection in a way which reflects credit upon his religious
zeal and his administrative ability alike, is a native son of
the city, born September 5, 1872, his parents being William and
Josephine (Morin) Daly. The father was born on the isle of Malta,
where the grandfather, a native of County Cavan, Ireland, was an
officer in the British army. William Daly came to Canada with
the Forty-seventh Regiment Band in 1861 and was afterward in the
employ of the Grand Trunk Railway Company for one year, resigning
in order to accept the position of manager of the Point St.
Charles branch of the City & District Savings Bank, a position
which he held continuously for thirty-seven years, retiring from
active life in 1909. He died May 19, 1913, and is survived by his
wife. They were for many years members of St. Gabriel’s Catholic
church. The following children were born to their union: William,
who is a member of the firm of Daly & Morin, manufacturers in
Montreal; George, of this review; Louisa, the wife of D. J.
Byrne, of Leonard Brothers, wholesale fish dealers of this city;
Elizabeth, a nun at Hotel Dieu, Montreal; Aileen, who resides
with her mother; and Mary, Joseph, Alphonsus and Walter, all of
whom have passed away.

Rev. George Daly acquired his education in the parochial schools
of Montreal, which he attended until he was twelve years of age.
He then entered Montreal College and in 1888 became a student
at St. Trond, Belgium, where he remained five years. At the
end of that time he went to Beau Plateau, in Belgium, studying
seven years there, returning to Quebec at the end of that time
and becoming a director in the Preparatory College at Ste. Anne
de Beaupré, a position which he retained for twelve years. In
1900, previous to his return to Canada, he was ordained to the
Catholic priesthood in Belgium and on the 2d of August, 1912, was
made parish priest at St. Anne’s in Montreal. Here he has done
excellent work during the two years of his incumbency, for he is
a man of abiding faith, energy and religious zeal and, moreover,
possesses unusual administrative and executive ability. He is a
man of scholarly attainments, most earnest and consecrated in his
work and is ever watchful over the interests of his people, whose
love he holds in large measure, while he enjoys the respect of
people of all denominations.


EDMOND BROSSARD.

One of the most able and deservedly successful barristers in
Montreal at the present time is Edmond Brossard, practicing at
the bar in partnership with Hon. P. E. Le Blanc, K. C., and
connected through his important clientage with a great deal of
notable litigation. He is numbered among Montreal’s native sons,
his birth having occurred in this city on the 19th of December,
1873. His parents were Telesphore B. and Evelina (Turgeon)
Brossard, the former for many years Dominion appraiser of His
Majesty’s customs in this city. The family is of old French
origin and of long Canadian establishment, having been founded in
the Dominion by the ancestor who came to Canada with Maisonneuve
in 1642.

In the acquirement of an education Edmond Brossard attended
St. Mary’s Jesuit College and was afterward a student in Laval
University, where even at that time he showed promise of the
distinction to which he has since attained. He was graduated B.
A. in 1894, taking the governor general’s medal, and he received
the degree of LL.L. with first rank honors in 1897. In the
following year he was called to the bar as advocate and since
that time has practiced his profession in Montreal. He was made
a councillor in 1900 and a member of the general council in the
same year, and his standing is high in legal circles of the city.
He has formed a partnership with Hon. P. E. Le Blanc, K. C., and
is in control of a large and important clientage, his success and
prominence having increased yearly as his ability has become more
widely known. Mr. Brossard has successfully conducted a number of
hotly contested legal cases for he possesses clear and incisive
qualities of mind, a power of close reasoning and clear deduction
as well as the personality and force necessary to make knowledge
effective in any line. His ability has carried him into important
relations with the legal life of the city, his standing in
professional circles being evidenced by the fact that in 1900
he was made secretary of the Montreal bar and in 1908 was elected
president of the Junior Bar Association.

[Illustration: EDMOND BROSSARD]

In October, 1900, Mr. Brossard was united in marriage to Mlle.
Alice de Lorimer and they are well known in social circles of the
city. Mr. Brossard is a man of considerable literary attainments,
possessed of a clear, lucid and forceful style in writing and
the ability to present his ideas in a concise and able way. He
is an occasional contributor to the press and to law reviews,
and his name is a synonym for efficiency and comprehensive
knowledge in everything relating to the legal profession. He is
one of Montreal’s prominent, able and successful barristers and
in a profession where advancement depends almost entirely upon
individual merit and ability he has risen steadily, holding today
a place of prominence and possessing in his native talents and
developed powers the guarantee of still greater attainment in the
future.


AIME GEOFFRION, K. C.

Aime Geoffrion, treasurer of the council of the bar and one of
those at the head of the French section of the Montreal bar, as
well as holding one of the civil law professorships at McGill,
occupies a distinguished professional position. He was born in
Montreal, November 13, 1872. Fortunate is the man who has back
of him an ancestry honorable and distinguished, and happy is he
if his lines of life are cast in harmony therewith. In person,
in talents and in character Aime Geoffrion is a worthy scion of
his race. His father was the late Hon. C. A. Geoffrion one of
the leading members of the bar, minister without portfolio in
the Laurier government, and his mother was Eulalie G. Dorion,
the eldest daughter of the late Chief Justice Sir A. A. Dorion.
In the acquirement of his education Aime Geoffrion attended
successively St. John’s school, St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College
and McGill University. Having determined to enter upon the
practice of law, he prepared for the profession at McGill and was
graduated B. C. L. in 1893, being also a gold medalist. He began
practice as an advocate in 1894 and within nine years had won
such success that he was created a king’s counsel. He occupies
an enviable position in his profession, and in addition to his
appearance before Canadian courts he has pleaded on several
occasions before the judicial committee of the privy council.
He was one of the counsel retained by the province of Quebec in
the arbitration between the Dominion and Ontario and Quebec for
a settlement of outstanding accounts existing at the time of
the confederation. He was also made the junior Dominion counsel
in the matter of the Alaskan boundary arbitration in 1903-4.
When he expresses himself upon questions of vital importance to
city or province his opinions are listened to with attention
and interest, for it is recognized that he is a farsighted
and public-spirited man who has the municipal, provincial and
Dominion welfare close at heart. He is not only recognized as
the distinguished lawyer but also as a most able educator along
professional lines, having since 1905 been professor of civil law
in McGill University, in which position he succeeded Mr. Justice
Fortin.

In November, 1896, Mr. Geoffrion was married to Miss Marguerite
Thibaudeau, the eldest daughter of the late J. R. Thibaudeau,
senator of Montreal. Mr. Geoffrion gives his political allegiance
to the liberal party and is stanch and warm in support of the
principles in which he believes. His religious faith is that of
the Catholic church. He is a member of several of Montreal’s
leading clubs, including St. James Club, and the Montreal Reform
Club, and also of the Rideau Club of Ottawa. Sir Wilfrid Laurier
spoke of him as “one who well sustained the hereditary glories of
his house.” The Montreal Star has referred to him as “a man of a
remarkably clear and vigorous mind who has been highly successful
before all the courts.” He is widely recognized as a man of
earnest purpose, seeking ever to benefit by those activities and
interests which look beyond the exigencies of the moment to the
possibilities and opportunities of the future, and which seek
provincial welfare rather than the aggrandizement of self.


LAWRENCE MACFARLANE.

Lawrence Macfarlane, member of the well known firm of Lafleur,
Macdougall, Macfarlane & Pope, barristers and solicitors, was
born in Montreal on the 12th of November, 1876, a son of the late
James Ferrier and Cecilia Clare Macfarlane. He was a student in
the Montreal high school and then entered McGill for his arts
course, graduating with the degree of B. A. in 1897. He pursued
his studies in the law department of McGill and obtained the
degree of B. C. L. in April, 1900. He was called to the bar in
the same year and was admitted a partner in the law firm headed
by the late R. D. McGibbon, K. C., with whom he had previously
studied for three years. As representing English interests Mr.
Macfarlane is a director of the British Columbia Breweries,
Limited; the North Saskatchewan Land Company, Limited; the
Alabama Traction Light and Power Company, Limited; Terminal
Cities of Canada, Limited; Mexican Northern Power Company,
Limited; and the Cities Service Company.

Mr. Macfarlane’s political allegiance is given to the
conservative party. He belongs to St. Paul’s Lodge, Masons,
English Register, and he also has membership in the more
important clubs of his native city, including the St. James,
Canada, Royal Montreal Golf, University and Racquet Clubs.


JOSEPH CHARLES WRAY.

For many years the name of Joseph Charles Wray figured in
connection with the undertaking business in Montreal, but in
July, 1907, he retired from active management of a business which
had been established by his grandfather in 1840. Mr. Wray was
born in Montreal on the 25th of March, 1857, and is descended
from Irish ancestry, his parents being William and Marion
(McGregor) Wray, the latter of Scotch lineage. The father came
to Montreal at an early age with his father. The latter, Joseph
Wray, established an undertaking business in 1840 and was joined
by his son, William Wray in its conduct and management. The
business was originally conducted under the name of Joseph Wray,
but upon the death of the grandfather, William Wray succeeded to
the ownership and management of the business, which he afterward
conducted under his own name. However, his health failed him
about six months later, and he was obliged to retire from active
business. He was then succeeded by his son Joseph Charles Wray.

The last named had been a pupil in the public schools of Montreal
and after putting aside his text-books became connected with the
confectionery business in the employ of James Griffin. At length
he entered the undertaking business that had been established by
his grandfather, and when his father was forced to retire from
the management Joseph Charles Wray assumed control and conducted
the business under his own name for thirty years, his patronage
growing with the development of the city. In July, 1907, however,
the firm style was changed to Joseph C. Wray & Brother, and
Mr. Wray of this review retired from active management, being
succeeded by his youngest brother, Frederick A. Wray, who has
always been connected with the business. The Wrays were the first
to establish ambulance work in Canada in connection with the
hospitals, and they now own the ambulances used in connection
with the hospitals of the city. They began this in July,
1883, and the value of the work done by them can be scarcely
overestimated, the ambulance service largely annihilating time
and distance in cases of emergency, bringing the patient to
medical and surgical aid with as little discomfort as possible.

On the 7th of September, 1900, in Trinity church, Mr. Wray was
united in marriage to Ellen Louise Gibbon, a native of Wales.
They are members of the Church of England, and Mr. Wray is
identified with Mizpah Lodge, I. O. O. F., and Elgin Lodge, No.
7, A. F. & A. M. He votes independently, exercising his right
of franchise as his judgment dictates. He has long since won
place among the prosperous men of the city, his position being
attributable entirely to his close application and honorable
business methods.


OSCAR DESAUTELS.

Of distinguished French-Canadian ancestry, Oscar Desautels
worthily wears the family name and worthily carries forward the
family traditions. He is a successful notary of Montreal, in
which city he has many interests. His Canadian ancestry goes
back to Pierre Desautels, who was born of the marriage of Thomas
and Marie (Buisson) Desautels, of Malicerne, in the bishopric of
Mans, France. Pierre Desautels married Marie Remy and to them was
born Joseph Desautels at Montreal on the 29th of October, 1666.
He married Marie Charlotte Chatillon, and they became the parents
of a son, Michel, who was born at Pointe-aux-Trembles, Montreal,
October 1, 1701. Michel Desautels married Louise Catherine
Bergeron, and their son Michel was born at Sorel in 1727. He
married Marie Charlotte Rondeau, and they became the parents of
a son, Michel, who was born at St. Ours on the 11th of August,
1759. To this Michel Desautels was born a son, Michel, at Beloeil
in 1796. He married Josephte Morin, and their son Elzear was born
at St. Jean Baptiste, November 25, 1827. He was the father of
our subject. His wife was Malvina Guertin, and their son Oscar
was born at St. Jean Baptiste, April 26, 1872.

Oscar Desautels pursued a classical course at the Petit Seminaire
of Ste. Marie de Monnoir at Marieville and was graduated in June,
1893, with the Bachelor of Arts degree. From 1893 to 1898 he
studied law at St. Hyacinthe, in the office of Taché & Desautels,
notaries. He was admitted to practice on September 10, 1898. On
November 1st of that year he established himself as a notary at
Montreal and in the evening kept an office in the town of St.
Louis. His entrance into the legal profession and his first years
thereafter were arduous but his ability, energy and honesty led
him to success. During the first ten years--as is so often the
case in professional careers--his clientele grew slowly. He was
notary of the corporation of the town of St. Louis and also of
the school commission of the various parishes of the town of St.
Louis and is counsel for various other important institutions.
He enjoys today a numerous and representative clientage which
recruits itself largely from the old town of St. Louis, which
is now the ward Laurier of the metropolis. Mr. Desautels is
interested in various enterprises, largely along real estate
lines, among which is La Compagnie Nationale d’Immeubles, of
which he has always been one of the directors. He has interested
himself actively in mutual societies and has held official
positions in nearly all those societies established in the town
of St. Louis.

At Beloeil, on the 8th of June, 1903, Mr. Desautels was united
in marriage to Miss Corine Bernard, a daughter of Elophe and
Mathilde (Lafontaine) Bernard. To them have been born four
children, Bernard, Robert, Thérèse and Bruno. Mr. Desautels gives
his political allegiance to the liberal party and is treasurer
of the Liberal Club of the town of St. Louis. He is an effective
worker for his party, in which he enjoys great prestige. An
excellent notary and public-spirited citizen, he is highly
esteemed and respected by all who know him. As a notary he enjoys
the highest reputation as to ability and integrity, and more and
more important interests have come under his direction as the
years have passed.


ZEPHIRIN HEBERT.

Zéphirin Hébert, president of the wholesale grocery firm of
Hudon, Hébert & Company, Ltd., the leading concern of its kind
in Canada, was born in Montreal, February 6, 1866, the son of
Charles P. Hébert, who was the first president of the above
mentioned firm. In 1883 Zéphirin Hébert became connected with the
business of which he is now the head. In 1893 he was admitted
as a partner. In 1906, on the incorporation of the company,
he became assistant manager and a director. In 1908 he was
elected to the office of vice president and in 1911 succeeded
his brother, the late Albert Hébert, as president. For about
twenty-five years he has been a member of the Montreal Board of
Trade and since the 1st of February, 1913, he has served on the
council of that body, and in December, 1913, was elected a member
of the transportation bureau of that organization.

[Illustration: ZEPHIRIN HEBERT]

Mr. Hébert is president of the Dominion Wholesale Grocers Guild,
chairman of the prize committee for the province of Quebec,
president of the Montreal Wholesale Grocers Guild, president of
the Montreal Wholesale Liquor Association, treasurer and governor
of Notre Dame Hospital, governor of the Montreal General Hospital
and governor of Laval University. He is also a member of the
Canada Club, the Montreal Jockey Club and L’Association St. Jean
Baptiste.

Mr. Hébert married Miss Blanche Robidoux and their four children
are, Marielle, Gertrude, Charles P. and Jacques R.


REV. WILLIAM O’MEARA.

A man of scholarly attainments, great force of personality and
broadness of mind, Rev. William O’Meara has made these qualities
the basis of many years of successful work as rector of St.
Gabriel’s church in Montreal and in the promotion of the work
along many lines in which the Catholic church is interested. He
was born in Sherrington, Quebec province, May 6, 1857, and is one
of twelve children born to the late Captain William and Judith
(McManus) O’Meara, the former a native of Waterford, Ireland, who
came to Canada in 1832.

Rev. William O’Meara acquired his early education in the grammar
schools of Sherrington, and later entered the College of Ste.
Thérèse, where he took a classical course, graduating with the
degree of B. A. in 1880. He then entered Grand Seminary in
Montreal, where he pursued his theological studies for three
years and a half, being ordained to the Roman Catholic priesthood
December 22, 1883. He was first made curate at St. Ann’s church
in this city and was then transferred to St. Cecelia’s parish in
Valleyfield, where he remained as assistant from 1884 to 1889.
In the latter year he came to St. Gabriel’s church, Montreal,
and in January, 1890, was made rector, a position which he still
holds. This parish was organized in 1873 as a mission from St.
Henry’s parish and was made an independent congregation two years
later. The first church was a wooden structure, presided over
by Rev. John J. Salmon, and here services were held until 1891,
Rev. Thomas McCarthy succeeding the first parish priest. The new
church was started in 1891 by Father O’Meara and was completed
in 1894, at a cost of one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars.
It is a beautiful structure, built of limestone, in the Roman
and Byzantine styles of architecture, having a capacity of one
thousand people and the dimensions being one hundred and sixty
by seventy feet. There is a main altar of white wood, a chancel
rail of oak and stations of the cross which are fine specimens of
work in terra cotta. Father O’Meara built in 1895 a parish house
costing eleven thousand five hundred dollars, and the entire
church property is valued at one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars. The affairs of the congregation, which numbers eight
hundred families, are administered in a capable and farsighted
way, Father O’Meara having proven himself a reliable business
man as well as an earnest and consecrated worker in the cause
of religion. He is particularly interested in the schools of
his parish and has now erected two excellent institutions of
learning, which are conducted in connection with his church.
These are a school for boys, built at a cost of thirty-seven
thousand dollars, and an academy for girls, representing a value
of fifty-five thousand dollars.

Father O’Meara was formerly a governor of the Catholic high
school of Montreal and was on July 1, 1905, appointed a Catholic
school commissioner. He was elected chairman of the commission in
1910 and since that time has been accounted one of the prominent
educators of the city as well as one of the greatest individual
forces in the promotion of Catholic education. He has given a
great deal of time and attention to this work and in 1907 was
sent as a delegate to the Dublin International Exposition in
order to study the national school systems of Ireland, France,
England and Belgium. He is interested in the work of St.
Gabriel’s Total Abstinence and Benefit Society, of which he is
president, and he has recently been appointed honorary canon
of the archdiocese of Montreal. He has, indeed, accomplished a
great deal of important and constructive work among the people of
his parish, and he holds their love in large measure, while he
enjoys the confidence and respect of people of all denominations.
He has demonstrated that the business affairs of St. Gabriel’s
parish are in the hands of a farsighted, capable and energetic
man, while his religious zeal is evidenced in his constant and
untiring labor in the promulgation of the doctrines in which he
believes. He is widely and favorably known in Montreal and has
earned mention by the Montreal Gazette as “a broad-minded, well
informed, energetic and popular priest.”


LOUIS BEAUDOIN.

In commercial circles of Montreal, Louis Beaudoin is widely known
as president of Beaudoin Limited, accountants and auditors. Louis
Beaudoin of this review occupies the executive position in this
firm, and Gérant L. M. Philéas Beaudoin is secretary-treasurer.
They maintain offices at 33 Notre Dame Street West and have been
eminently successful in their line, enjoying an extensive and
important clientage. Louis Beaudoin was born August 29, 1869, in
Repentigny, L’Assomption county, Quebec, and is a son of Pierre
and Melina (Lachapelle dit Jeannotte) Beaudoin, the former a well
known agriculturist of Repentigny. The paternal grandparents
of our subject were Pierre and Adelaide (Rochon) Beaudoin, the
former also a farmer of Repentigny. The great-grandfather, Jean
Baptiste Beaudoin, also followed that occupation at the same
place. The maternal grandfather, Pierre Lachapelle, was an
agriculturist of Mascouche. The Beaudoin family is historically
known in two variations, that of Baudoin and Bodin. The earliest
record of a member of this family goes back to Alexis Beaudoin,
born in 1694, who on November 27, 1720, married at Ste. Croix,
Angeline Houde and had seven children. Of these his son Louis
married Louise Barrat, at Montreal, on May 6, 1748, this being
the first mention of the family in Montreal archives.

Louis Beaudoin acquired his education in the College de
L’Assomption and began his career in the grocery business,
also being connected with butchering and merchandising. He
subsequently became president of Beaudoin Limited and has since
given his entire attention to the extension of the interests of
that firm. Recently a line of Assyrian products has been added.
Natural ability and keen observation of existing conditions make
him eminent in his profession, and he is today recognized as one
of the foremost men in his line in Montreal.

On February 4, 1889, Mr. Beaudoin was united in marriage to
Evelina Legault dit Deslaurier, a daughter of Jean Baptiste
Legault dit Deslaurier. The father for many years has been
connected with commercial interests. Mr. and Mrs. Beaudoin have
the following children: Philéas, Coramance, Armand, Honoré,
Adrien, Aurélien, Albert, Adolphe, Laurent, Amedée, Eveline and
Clément Marcel. In his political views Mr. Beaudoin is a liberal,
stanchly upholding the principles of his party. Although he has
never cared to participate in public life he has done much toward
promoting worthy public enterprises. He is a valued citizen of
Montreal, prominent in commercial circles and effective in his
private capacity in furthering the interests of the city, where
he has been so long and so successfully engaged in business.


THOMAS J. DAWSON.

“Not the good that comes to us but the good that comes to the
world through us is the measure of our success.” Judged by this
standard, Thomas J. Dawson was a most successful man. His life
measured up to the standard which all men acknowledge good.
His record was as an open book which all might read and there
were many who bore testimony to his kindness of heart and his
generous spirit manifest in active effort for the alleviation of
hard conditions of life for the unfortunate and for practical
improvement along the line of civic and moral reform. Mr. Dawson
was born at Knockmanoul, Ireland, April 29, 1843, and spent his
early life in Dublin and Belfast. His parents, Rev. Abram and
Anne (Graham) Dawson, were both natives of the Emerald isle.
The father was a minister of the Methodist Episcopal church and
coming from Ireland to the new world engaged in preaching in
Ontario near Kingston. Thomas J. Dawson came to Canada in 1864
and spent several years at Sydenham and Guelph, Ontario. In
1870 he arrived in Montreal, from which date until his death he
was actively engaged in commercial pursuits. For fifteen years
prior to his demise he was connected with the custom service and
during the latter part of that period was the appraiser in the
postoffice department.

Mr. Dawson was a splendid type of the Irish gentleman,
possessing native wit and humor and scattering cheer wherever
he went. His geniality and cordiality ever made him popular in
social circles and his friends were almost as numerous as his
acquaintances. His spirit of benevolence was one of his strongly
developed characteristics and, again and again, found expression
in tangible effort for the benefit of others. He was deeply
interested in the Irish Protestant Benevolent Society, was a life
governor of the Montreal Homeopathic Hospital, was for years
secretary of the Old Brewery Mission and was an active member
of the Westmount Methodist church, which numbered him among its
earnest, helpful workers. Any movement tending to bring about
civic or moral reform received his indorsement and cooperation.
In 1866, upon its organization, he became a member of the Young
Men’s Christian Association, retaining his membership until his
death, and to the support of which he contributed liberally. He
gave, too, of his time and efforts for its upbuilding and always
took a most active interest in young men, realizing how necessary
are uplifting influences in the plastic age. Life was to him
purposeful and fraught with opportunity for good, which he did
not neglect, and when he passed away October 21, 1910, he left
behind him a memory that is a benediction to all who knew him.

In 1876 Mr. Dawson was married to Miss Louisa Holland, daughter
of George A. Holland, who came from Ireland as a young man
and was the active head of the G. A. Holland & Son Company,
dealers in wall paper, established by him in 1843. He built
up that business to large proportions and remained in close
identification therewith until his demise. His wife, who bore
the maiden name of Marian Hutchins, was a native of Canada. He
was one of the volunteer firemen of Montreal at an early day and
he passed away in this city in July, 1882. Mr. and Mrs. Dawson
had three children: Ralph H. of Montreal; Arthur B. of Calgary;
and Mabel L., the wife of R. Macaulay Cushing, and they have two
children, Dorothy M. and Arthur M.


LOUIS ALFRED ADHEMAR RIVET.

“A man of ideas; a man with a future; a coming man,” is the
way the Toronto Globe describes Louis Alfred Adhemar Rivet, of
Montreal, and all who have come in contact with him during the
course of his brilliant and successful career as a barrister
and legislator fully concur in this opinion, adding also that
he is one of the most able members of his profession in Quebec
province, a distinguished statesman and one of the greatest
of the younger generation of French Canadians. He was born in
Joliette, Quebec, on the 15th of September, 1873, and is a son of
Charles and Herminie (Michaud) Rivet, of French Canadian origin.

In the acquirement of an education Mr. Rivet attended Joliette
College and Laval University, from which institution he was
graduated B. A. in 1892 and LL. B. in 1895, in the same year
being called to the bar as advocate. He was made king’s
counsel in 1906 and for a number of years has been practicing
successfully in Montreal, where he is ranked among brilliant
and forceful barristers. For a time he was associated with the
late C. Beausoleil, M. P., but the death of the latter severed
this connection and subsequently he became associated with other
firms, the present one being Rivet, Glass & Sullivan. He is
recognized as a strong and able practitioner, a barrister whose
knowledge of underlying legal principles is comprehensive and
exact and whose application of points of law is always correct
and logical. His keen and incisive mind grasps quickly all
the details of the most intricate case, seizes upon the most
telling points and arguments, and his presentations are models
of conciseness and accuracy. Mr. Rivet has thus won distinction
in his chosen profession and has secured a representative
clientage in Montreal connecting him with a great deal of
notable litigation. He has been interested and active in affairs
affecting the Montreal bar, his ability being widely recognized
in professional circles.

[Illustration: L. A. RIVET]

As is often the case, Mr. Rivet’s success in law has carried with
it prominence in politics and his interest in the growth and
welfare of the province has carried him forward into important
political relations. At the bi-election of 1904 he was returned
to the house of commons and, representing Hochelaga in that body,
served with ability and distinction until 1911. During this time
he accomplished a great deal of constructive and important work
in statesmanship, leaving the impress of his personality and
standards upon useful, and beneficial legislation, his vote and
influence being always on the side of right, reform and progress.
A stanch liberal, Mr. Rivet has always supported the principles
and policies of that party and has been one of the greatest
individual forces in its expansion in Montreal, where he founded
the St. Gabriel Liberal Club, of which he served as president
in 1898. He has been a director of the Montreal Reform Club. He
calls himself an imperialist and is one in the sense that the
greatness of the empire depends to a great extent on the fair
development of the colonies. He is, however, a stanch advocate
of Canadian customs and institutions and has done as much as
any one man in the Dominion to promote their spread and growth.
Although of French Canadian extraction he speaks English fluently
and often addressed the house of commons in that language.
In a lecture on the dual language of Canada delivered before
the Nomads’ Club in 1909 he advocated Canada as a bi-lingual
nation and he has done much to promote the fusion of the two
great nations which dominate the country. He also addressed the
Canadian Club in Ontario, advocating closer relations between the
two races, in view of national unity.

Mr. Rivet married in January, 1898, Mlle. Rose Cypihot and both
are widely and favorably known in social circles of Montreal.
Their children are: Gaston, born June 23, 1901; Marguerite,
January 10, 1904; and Gerard, January 24, 1906.

Mr. Rivet has extensive and important club affiliations,
belonging to the Club St. Denis, the Club Canadien de Montreal
and the Reform Club, and socially is found to be genial, charming
and constantly courteous. In his profession he has made continued
and rapid advancement and his accomplishments in the political
field have been substantial and far-reaching, so that he is well
entitled to a high place among the representative and useful
citizens of the city where he makes his home.


JOSEPH ALCIDE CHAUSSE.

Since 1900 Joseph Alcide Chaussé has filled the important
position of superintendent of buildings and city architect of
Montreal and in that position has established for himself an
enjoyable reputation. He is one of the foremost men in the
profession, not only in the city, but in the Dominion and
recognition has come to him from numerous national as well as
foreign societies. Alcide Chaussé was born at St. Sulpice,
Assumption county, Quebec, Canada, on January 7, 1868, a son of
Edouard and Rose de Lima (Rivet) Chaussé, both natives of St.
Sulpice, Quebec. The father, a prominent lumberman there and
ex-alderman of the city of Montreal, died on March 15, 1909,
the mother having preceded him in death, passing away on July
20, 1896. The Chaussé family is of ancient lineage and one
of the old-established ones in the province of Quebec. Pierre
Chaussé, le Chaudronnier (the brazier), was born in 1630 and was
established at St. Anne de la Parade as early as 1681. Pierre
Chaussé, another of the name, called la Lumière, was born in
1651, a son of Jean and Catherine (Groleau) Chaussé. He married
Marie Madeleine Sel au Deselles on April 24, 1681, and they had
five children. These are among the earliest ancestors of Mr.
Chaussé recorded in Canadian history.

Alcide Chaussé received his fundamental education at St. Mary’s
Academy in Montreal. He studied architecture with the late
Alphonse Raza, of Montreal, from the 3d of March, 1884, to
the 14th of March, 1887. From the 17th of March of that year
until July 24, 1889, he was in Chicago, perfecting himself in
the profession, and was admitted to practice in 1888. On the
20th of November, 1889, he opened an office for the practice
of architecture at Montreal and continued with ever increasing
success until May 21, 1900, when he was appointed to his present
important position. A wide and comprehensive knowledge fits him
particularly for this work and Mr. Chaussé has been in a large
measure responsible for the upbuilding of the city along lines of
the “plan beautiful.” He also holds the position of commissioner
of the superior court for the district of Montreal and that of
justice of the peace for the same district.

Mr. Chaussé is a charter member of the Province of Quebec
Association of Architects, of which he served as president in
1906. In 1907 he was the promoter of and since its inception
is, honorary secretary and a member of the Royal Architectural
Institute of Canada; is an associate of the Canadian and American
Societies of Civil Engineers; a member of La Chambre Syndicale
de la Construction; a member of the Board of Plumbers’ Examiners
in Montreal; chairman of the committee on fire prevention
of the American Society of Municipal Improvements; a member
of the American Public Health Association; a member of the
council of Le Comité Permanent des Congrès Internationaux des
Architectes; member of the British Fire Prevention Committee;
corresponding member of La Société Centrale des Architectes
Français; the American Institute of Architects; La Société
Centrale d’Architecture de Belgique; La Société Nationale des
Architectes de France; Architekten-Verein at Berlin, Germany;
Sociedad Central de Architectos, Madrid, Spain; and the Society
of Portuguese Architects. He is a member of the council of
the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society. Mr. Chaussé has been
awarded gold, silver and bronze medals by various architectural
societies for technical papers and lectures. He was a member of
the International Congress of Architects held at Paris in 1900;
at Madrid, in 1904; and London, England, in 1906; and of the
International Fire Prevention Congress, held at London in 1903;
a delegate to the Sixth Commercial Congress of the Empire, held
at London, in 1906. In 1907 he conceived the project for the
Institute of Architects of Canada. He is the author of several
articles on fire prevention and fire protection; of the “Building
Inspector’s Handbook,” published in 1902; the “Code of Building
Laws of the Province of Quebec,” published in 1906; the “Handbook
of Building Laws of Montreal”; and the “Supplement to the Code
of Building Laws,” published in 1913, all of them published in
English and French.

At Ste. Bridgide’s church, Montreal, on Saturday, September
8, 1894, Mr. Chaussé was united in marriage to Miss Rose de
Lima Renaud, a daughter of Cyrille Renaud and Rose de Lima
(Favreau) Renaud, both of Montreal. The father is a well known
manufacturers’ agent of this city. Mr. and Mrs. Chaussé have
two sons: Marcel, who was born July 7, 1902, and Fernand, born
December 29, 1904. Mr. and Mrs. Chaussé are members of the
Blessed Sacrament Congregation, Church of the Holy Sacrament, on
Mount Royal Avenue.

The political views of Mr. Chaussé coincide with the principles
of the conservative party. He is a member of Le Club Canadien of
Montreal, a member of L’Alliance Nationale, of which he served
as grand marshal; and a member of the Association of St. Jean
Baptiste, of which he has been president of Ste. Bridgide’s
Section. He was also president of the Cêrcle Jeanne D’Arc of
L’Alliance Nationale. Fraternally he is a member of the Knights
of Columbus. Mr. Chaussé finds recreation in curling and is a
member of the St. Lawrence Curling Club of Montreal. His city
residence is at No. 1433 St. Hubert Street, while the summer home
of the family is Villa Iris, Sault-au-Recollet.


MORTIMER BARNETT DAVIS.

Manufacturing interests of Montreal find a prominent
representative in Mortimer Barnett Davis, one of the leaders in
the tobacco trade of the Dominion, being active in the management
of an enterprise of mammoth proportions. It is true that he
entered upon a business already established, but in enlarging and
developing this many a man of less resolute spirit and of more
limited business sagacity would have failed. Each step he has
taken in the business world has been one of progress, bringing
him a broader outlook and wider opportunities.

Mr. Davis was born February 6, 1866, in Montreal, a son of Samuel
and Minnie (Falk) Davis, the former the founder of the firm of
Samuel Davis & Sons, manufacturers and importers of cigars at
Montreal. Mortimer B. Davis completed his education in the high
school of his native city and early became associated with his
father in business, receiving thorough training that acquainted
him with every phase of the trade. He went upon the road as a
traveling salesman and eventually was advanced to the position
of manager after the firm had acquired the D. Ritchie Tobacco
factory. He controlled the business most systematically and,
finally, when it had been absorbed by the formation of the
American Tobacco Company of Canada in 1895, he became president
of the company and so continues. Later he gave to the country
a great national industry in the Empire Tobacco Company, which
is a branch of the Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada. He was
largely instrumental in establishing a permanent market for
Canada leaf tobacco and promoting trade interests in his line
between this and other lands. Something of the volume of business
under his control is indicated in the fact that there are now
three thousand workmen in his factories. No undertaking in
connection with the tobacco trade seems too difficult or its
scope too broad for him to successfully manage and control. Every
effort which he puts forth seems to count for the utmost and
obstacles and difficulties in his path seem but an impetus for
renewed concentration and direction. His opinions carry weight
in the management of other important financial, commercial and
agricultural interests.

On the 12th of June, 1898, Mr. Davis was married to Miss
Henrietta Myers, and they have one son. Mr. Davis belongs to the
Royal Montreal Golf Club, and also holds membership in the Mount
Royal, St. James, Montreal Hunt and Montreal Jockey Clubs, the
Auto Club of Canada and the Forest and Stream Club, associations
which indicate something of the nature of his interests and
activities and which have brought about a well rounded character,
justifying the expression of the Gazette, which termed him “a man
of strength, vigor, capacity and wisdom.”


RENE ALPHONSE JOSEPH PIGEON.

René Alphonse Joseph Pigeon, patent solicitor of Montreal,
member of the firm of Pigeon, Pigeon & Davis, was born at
Billingsbridge, near Ottawa, on the 11th of July, 1890. The
ancestral line can be traced back to Pierre Pigeon, who was
born in 1636 and was married in Montreal to Jeanne Godart, who
was born in 1638. Their marriage occurred in 1662, twenty years
after the foundation of Montreal. Representatives of succeeding
generations have lived in or near Montreal, some going to
Laprairie and others to Verchères. The father, Hormisdas Honoré
Pigeon, was born at Verchères, in Verchères county, P. Q., and
after having lived for some years in the United States removed to
Ottawa, where he has now been engaged in business for more than
thirty years. He married Marie Tremblay who was born at Baie St.
Paul, Charlevoix county, and was married in 1889. The Tremblays
were among the earliest settlers of that section.

[Illustration: RENE A. J. PIGEON]

René Alphonse J. Pigeon was a student in the University
of Ottawa, completing his studies there in 1907. He
afterward studied mechanics and electricity and entered
upon his professional career as draftsman in the office of
Fetherstonhaugh, Dennison & Blackmore, patent solicitors at
Ottawa. After a year he was promoted to the position of manager
of their Ottawa office and was in the employ of that firm
for four years. In 1912 he left them to establish himself in
business in Montreal as a member of the present firm of Pigeon,
Pigeon & Davis. Previous experience and thorough collegiate
and professional training have well qualified him for the
responsibilities, activities and duties of the profession. He
is a typical young man of the age, alert, enterprising and
progressive and is now at the head of a large, growing and
successful business.


REV. JOSEPH N. O. DUPUIS, D. D., D. C. L.

In the life of the Catholic church of Canada Rev. Joseph Nazaire
Odilon Dupuis occupies a foremost position as inspector and
visitor of a number of parish schools which are attended by over
thirty thousand children. He was chosen to this important office
in 1913 by twenty-seven school commissions in Montreal which
are formed into an association, and has done fruitful work in
promoting education in the city.

Rev. Dupuis was born at Montreal on the 16th of December, 1871,
and is a son of Nazaire Dupuis, founder of the commercial house
of Dupuis Frères, and of Alphonsine (St. Onge) Dupuis. He pursued
his classical studies at the College of Montreal and in June,
1890, entered ecclesiastical orders. He was ordained priest
by Monseigneur Fabre on August 30, 1896. From 1896 to 1899 he
studied at the Canadian College of Rome, Italy, returning from
there with the degree of Doctor of Theology, bestowed by the
propaganda in 1898, and the degree of Doctor of Canon Law,
bestowed in 1899 by Apollinaire College. From 1899 to 1900 he
studied at the Catholic Institute of Paris and at the Sorbonne.
In the latter year he returned to Canada, becoming vicar of the
Church of St. Jacques at Montreal, where he remained until 1902,
when he was attached to the congregation St. Louis de France,
remaining until 1904. He was appointed almoner of the Convent of
the Sisters of the Sacred Heart of the Sault au Récollet, where
he remained for about nine years. At the same time he acted as
chaplain at the Crèche of the Sisters of Miséricorde. In 1913
he was chosen by twenty-seven school commissions of Montreal,
formed into an association, as a visitor and inspector of all
the schools under the control of these commissions, having under
his jurisdiction thirty thousand children divided over forty
different parishes and eighty-two schools. Rev. Dupuis was one of
the founders of Lafontaine Council of the Knights of Columbus. He
is life governor of Notre Dame Hospital and is professor at Laval
University and the author of several lecture papers. He has been
heard as a preacher in nearly all of the churches of Montreal.
Rev. Dupuis is a great lover of fine arts and literature and
spent his last holidays in Italy and Spain, paying especial
attention to the masterpieces of those countries.


HARRY HAYWARD HENSHAW.

Harry Hayward Henshaw, whose name was well known in electrical
circles died in Montreal, his native city, May 15, 1908. He was
born in 1865, a son of Joshua Henshaw, who for many years was
paymaster with the Grand Trunk Railway. His mother bore the
maiden name of Jane Fayrer and in the family were two sons and a
daughter: Charles G., now living in Vancouver; Harry Hayward; and
Lady Williams Taylor.

After pursuing his education in Montreal schools, Harry Hayward
Henshaw obtained a position with the Grand Trunk Railway
and afterward spent twenty years with the Royal Electric
Company, gaining intimate and comprehensive knowledge of the
various phases of the business, during the two decades of his
identification therewith. When the Royal Electric Company became
a part of the amalgamation forming the Montreal Light, Heat
& Power Company he became secretary and treasurer of the new
company, remaining thus for many years, on the expiration of
which period he became manager of the Allis-Chalmers Company,
manufacturers of electric machinery. He had been with them
for only a few months when ill health forced him to resign.
Throughout almost the entire period of his business career he
was connected with electrical interests and came to be a leading
figure in electrical circles.

In Montreal in 1895 Mr. Henshaw was married to Florence Thompson
Christie, a daughter of Peter M. and Margaret (Thompson)
Christie, the latter being a daughter of Edward Thompson, a
prominent citizen of Montreal serving as alderman from the Centre
ward and rendering the city much valuable service. He was mainly
instrumental in the widening of Notre Dame Street during his term
of office, and in recognition of his efforts for this work he was
publicly presented with a handsome silver service on Christmas
Day, 1859. The paternal grandfather of Mrs. Henshaw, William
Christie, came to this city at an early day and was active in the
soap manufacturing business until late in life when he retired.
He was a prominent church man, being for forty years an elder in
St. Paul’s church. To Mr. and Mrs. Henshaw was born a daughter,
Margaret Fayrer. Mr. Henshaw was a member of St. James Club,
Forest and Stream Club, and the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club. He
belonged to the English Cathedral church and was interested in
all that pertained to the city’s development and progress, along
material, social and moral lines. His life measured up to high
standards of manhood and citizenship and commanded for him the
respect, confidence and good-will of those who knew him.


GEORGE CREAK.

George Creak, senior member of the firm of Creak, Cushing
& Hodgson, chartered accountants, was born and educated in
London, England. His parents were George and Maria Creak, of
Clapham, London. For many years he was secretary and treasurer
of the Merchants Cotton Company, began practice as a chartered
accountant in 1895 and is now at the head of the above firm.

Mr. Creak is a member of the Association of Accountants of
Montreal and is a fellow of the Dominion Association of Chartered
Accountants. He is a Freeman of the city of London and is a
member of the Goldsmiths’ Company, as were his father and
grandfather before him. Mr. Creak belongs to the Anglican church
and is a member of the Mount Royal Club, the Canada Club, the Art
Association of Montreal, the Montreal Hunt Club, and the Board of
Trade.


WILLIAM ERNEST FINDLAY.

Since entering business life William Ernest Findlay has devoted
his attention uninterruptedly to the insurance profession, and
his success is due to his close application, indefatigable
energy and thorough understanding of every phase of the business
in which he has so long been engaged. Montreal claims him as a
native citizen, his birth having here occurred April 26, 1867,
his parents being Captain Jonathan D. G. Findlay, R. N. and
Mary (Forbes) Findlay, both now deceased. The son acquired his
education in the model and private schools and, as previously
stated, became connected with the insurance profession upon his
entrance into business life. He was manager and inspector of
the Northern Life Insurance Company and in 1906 was advanced
to the position of general secretary, which he later resigned
to devote his entire attention to his other interests. In his
connection with the Northern Life he did much to shape the
policy of the company and direct its activities, and its success
is attributable in considerable measure to his efforts, sound
judgment and ready understanding of the different phases of the
business. He is now chief agent for Canada of the Niagara Fire
Insurance Company of New York, and also for the province of
Quebec for the Springfield Fire and Marine Insurance Company and
is an authority on fire prevention and underwriting.

On the 8th of February, 1897, Mr. Findlay was married to Laura
Brockwill Grier, a daughter of William Grier, of Montreal,
in which city they have since resided. Mr. Findlay has an
interesting military chapter in his life record, having in 1891
been appointed second lieutenant of the Sixth Regiment Fusiliers.
The following year brought him advancement to the rank of captain
and in 1904 he became a member of the Corps Reserve. He holds a
first class certificate from the Royal School of Infantry. He is
a justice of the peace and commissioner of the superior court.
He is a life member of Royal Victoria Lodge, No. 57, A. F. & A.
M., and a director of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association.
He is honorary secretary-treasurer of the Canadian branch of the
Royal Caledonian Curling Club and has always been much interested
in athletic affairs.


WALTER NORTON EVANS.

Church activities vied with business interests in claiming the
attention and energies of Walter Norton Evans, who died on the
23d of October, 1896. He was born at Wolverhampton, England, in
1837, and after pursuing his education there, came as a young
man to Canada. His father, Samuel Norton Evans, also a native of
England, crossed the Atlantic to the American continent and spent
the last years of his life in retirement in Guelph, Ontario. In
business circles Walter N. Evans made for himself a creditable
place. He became cashier of the firm of Frothingham & Workman,
and was one of the executives of the Thomas Workman building.
His identification with the above interests covered a period
of nearly a third of a century. His name became a synonym for
reliability as well as energy in business circles. Men came to
know that they could depend upon him, that what he promised he
would do and that he would improve his opportunities not only for
his own benefit but for the welfare of those things in which he
was concerned.

In 1864 Mr. Evans was married in Montreal to Miss Nora Hunter,
a daughter of the Rev. Stephenson Hunter, a minister of the
Unitarian church of England. They became parents of five
children: Nevil Norton Evans, professor of chemistry in McGill
University; Mabel Norton, who is Mrs. George. C. Wright, of
Ottawa; Dr. Percy Norton Evans, professor of chemistry in Purdue
University, at Lafayette, Indiana; Lillian Norton, the wife of
Professor Henry Martyn MacKay, head of the civil engineering
department at McGill University; and Miss Gladys Norton Evans, at
home.

Mr. Evans was deeply interested in affairs of public moment,
kept well informed concerning the claims of vital interest and
gave his indorsement to many measures that are a matter of
civic virtue and civic pride. For many years he was prominently
and actively connected with the Unitarian church and for a long
period served as superintendent of its Sunday school. High were
the ideals which his life activities embodied and the name which
he left to posterity is an honored one.


HON. LAURENT OLIVIER DAVID.

Hon. Laurent Olivier David, senator and journalist, possesses
a statesmanlike grasp of affairs that has enabled him to
handle important public questions in a manner that has largely
influenced public opinion. Prominent and active, however, as he
has been in the field of journalism and in politics, literature
is perhaps his real life work and his writings will endure for
years to come, especially the important historical volumes of
which he is the author. A native of Sault au Récollet, Quebec, he
was born March 24, 1840, a son of Major Stanislas and Elizabeth
(Tremblay) David. He pursued his education in St. Therese College
and after thorough preparation for law practice was called to
the bar in 1864. While yet a law student he entered the field
of newspaper publication in the founding of Le Colonisateur,
to which he was a contributor. He would undoubtedly have won
prominence in the practice of law had he continued in that
field, but the trend of his mind was rather for the discussion
of public questions of vital significance and far-reaching
importance. He was particularly interested in the question of
the impending confederation which so altered the destiny of the
Dominion. It was during the period of his early manhood that he
became associated with Sir Wilfrid Laurier, and the friendship
then formed between them has since existed. There was little
indication at that period to show that Laurier, the young lawyer,
who was forced to practice the most rigid economy, would in
future years, as prime minister, guide the destinies of his
country. Long after he had risen to prominence Mr. David became
his biographer, his history of the eminent liberal leader being
marked by delicate sympathy, inner knowledge and keen and subtle
appreciation of character.

Continuing his activity in the journalistic field, Mr. David,
in 1870, established and became chief editor of an illustrated
weekly called L’Opinion Publique, which he left because he
objected to the paper’s supporting the government on the question
of the Pacific scandal. He made in that circumstance an important
sacrifice of his personal interest. In this enterprise he was
associated with Messrs. Mousseau and Desbarats. In 1874, in
association with the late C. Beausoleil, M. P., he established Le
Bien Public, which he discontinued when the Mackenzie government
refused to raise the tariff more than a relatively small per
cent, which Mr. David thought insufficient in view of the
financial crisis then prevailing. His newspaper career as well
as his natural interest brought him into close connection with
the important political and other significant questions of the
day, and his discussion thereof through the columns of the press
did not a little in formulating public policy. His presentation
of any subject was always clear and cogent. There was a piquant
and compelling force in his style, and the development of his
native powers and talents in the field of literature has made
him one of Canada’s foremost representatives in authorship.
During the brief interval between two epochs in his newspaper
publication he acted as translator and assistant clerk of the
votes and deliberations of the house of commons during the
Mackenzie regime. This was the initial step of his activity in
public office. He resigned the position in 1878 and afterward
successfully practiced his profession in Montreal. In May, 1892,
Mr. David was called to the office of city clerk of Montreal and
was one of the revisers who drafted a new charter for the city in
1898.

[Illustration: HON. LAURENT O. DAVID]

In the meantime he was taking an active part in the discussion of
many questions relative to the provincial and national welfare.
Originally a supporter of the conservative party, he withdrew
therefrom to join L’Union Nationale, an organization of young
men pledged to oppose the confederacy of the provinces. Later
he joined the liberal party under Dorion, Holton and Laflamme
and was in full accord with their policy on all questions save
that of protection to native industries, which he had always
favored. For many years he has been an unswerving supporter
of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, enjoying his personal friendship and
political confidence in a supreme degree. In 1867 and 1875
he unsuccessfully contested Hochelaga (local) at the general
election, and in 1878 contested Hochelaga for the house of
commons, while in 1891 he contested Montreal East for the house
of commons. He sat for Montreal East in the legislature from 1886
until 1890, when he retired because he was not entirely in accord
with the policy of Mr. Mercier, his local leader. On the 19th of
June, 1903, he was called to the senate by Lord Minto and has
since taken an active part in shaping the legislative history
of the country along the lines of progressive statesmanship.
He moved the address in reply to the speech from the throne in
1905, and his speech was highly appreciated by the whole Canadian
press. He has since moved on the subject of senate reform and on
the subject of concerted measures for the restriction in Canada
of indecent and immoral literature, and other subjects of vital
interest to the general public. He declined appointment to the
lieutenant governorship of the Northwest and it is said that he
would have been appointed judge if he had been willing to accept
the charge. He was also offered a judgeship in Montreal and
refused.

It would be difficult to determine which has been the most
important feature in the life record of the Hon. Laurent O.
David. Much of his time has been devoted to authorship, in which
field he has had marked influence aside from that which he has
exerted in journalism. From his pen have come various important
historical works, the titles and dates of publication being as
follows: Biographies et Portraits (1876); Le Heros de Chateauguay
(1883); Les Patriotes de 1837-8 (1884); Mes Contemporains (1894);
Les Deux Papineau (1896), Le Clergé Canadien (do.), condemned
at Rome and placed on the Index because of the strong position
which he took against the intervention of the priest in political
matters; L’Union de Deux Canadas 1841-67 (1898); Le Drapeau de
Carillon, a drama (1901); Laurier et son Temps (1905); Histoire
du Canada depuis la Confédération; and Souvenirs et Biographies
(1910). He has also lately published biographies of Charles Le
Moyne and of his illustrious sons, d’Iberville, de Bienville,
etc. These biographies first appeared in La Presse but will later
be issued in book form. He has frequently addressed the public
from the platform on such important subjects as National Unity,
A Page of Canadian History, etc., and is recognized as one of
Canada’s most graceful and instructive writers as well as a much
admired public speaker. The Toronto Club has characterized him as
“a man of fine literary attainments and high views of national
life” and the Toronto News wrote of him, “a man of sincere and
enlightened views, excellent abilities and thoroughly informed
upon public questions.”

Mr. David was married in 1868 to Mlle. Albina Chenet, who died
in July, 1887. In 1892 he wedded Mlle. Ludivine Garceau. His
children numbered one son and nine daughters. Next to his home,
he holds dear the public interests and is prominently identified
with the Society for the Protection of Women and Children of
the province of Quebec. He is deeply and helpfully interested
in all measures which seek the betterment of the community, and
endeavors to shape the public welfare according to the highest
ideals. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and a
knight of the Legion of Honor of France, having been appointed
in 1911. He has deep attachment for the institutions of his
native land, and it has been said of him that “next to his love
of Canada is his love for the flag which protects him and his
race in all that they hold dear and precious.” He often gives
expression to his admiration for the English constitution and
does not cease to repeat that it is the most perfect political
system of government made by man. He has membership in the
Canadian Club and in the Roman Catholic church. From early
life he has been deeply interested in the conservation of the
French language and customs, especially since the opening of
the Northwest, which event seemed to threaten the extinction
of the French-Canadians by foreign populations. Accordingly he
associated himself with St. Jean Baptiste and other national
societies, and it was as president of St. Jean Baptiste Society
that he labored to erect the Monument National. Although
considered a sincere patriot by his countrymen his patriotism
is not narrow, and he is always ready to admire what is done by
other people for the advancement and honor of their nationality.
He often repeats that the existence of different nationalities
in a country is an element of progress and civilization and that
Canada cannot but benefit by the work along different lines of
the representatives of two of the greatest nations of the world;
that the maintenance of French nationality does not conflict with
the keeping of British institutions. In his present position
as city clerk of Montreal he has displayed admirable fitness
resulting from habits of precision and wide knowledge of the
civic situation, combined with the courtesy, urbanity and quiet
dignity which have ever been among his marked characteristics. He
has enjoyed widespread confidence in this position, discharging
his duties without regard to partisanship, and the most
malevolent have never dared to assail the integrity and honor of
his course. His utterances may stir to public thought and action
and then, having accomplished their purpose, are in a measure
forgotten. His position as an author, however, is established
for all time, and in this connection the Montreal Standard has
written:

“As a writer he has gained the highest distinction. Like
Keats, he has an instinct for fine words. As Goldwin Smith is
in English, so Mr. David, among French-Canadians, is the most
exquisite writer of his generation. Perhaps the chief charm of
his prose lies in its exceeding clarity, and clearness is the
first quality in a French writer. There is no man in Canada today
who can better propound a synthesis; that also is a luminous
feature of his style. But for elegance and clearness he has among
his compatriots achieved a position of unique pre-eminence.”


ADRIEN LAFONTAINE.

Since the fall of 1912 Adrien Lafontaine has been engaged in law
practice in Montreal. His offices are located at No. 13 La Patrie
building and he makes his home at No. 1136 Galt Street, town of
St. Paul, Montreal. He was born in the parish of St. Barthélemi,
in the county of Berthier, on the 30th of November, 1887, a son
of Edmond and Marie Louise (Denis) Lafontaine, the father a well
known citizen of Montreal.

Adrien Lafontaine enjoyed a very thorough education. He attended
the Academy of St. Barthélemi and from the College of Montreal
obtained the degree of Bachelor of Letters in rhetoric and
philosophy, studying there during the years 1908 and 1909 with
the Fathers of St. Sulpice. He then entered Laval University of
Montreal, where he pursued his legal studies and from which he
graduated in 1912 as licentiate in law (LL. L.). On the 9th of
July, 1912, he submitted to examinations before the chamber of
notaries and was thereupon received as a notary, establishing
himself as a practicing lawyer on the 30th of October, 1912. His
excellent legal equipment gives promise of a distinguished career.

Mr. Lafontaine is interested in a loan company and a mining
company. He has been a notary public since the 12th of
July, 1912. On March 1, 1913, he joined the Independent
Order of Foresters and has been elected to the office
of secretary-treasurer of the Préfontaine Court of that
organization. Since October 1, 1912, he has been vice president
of the Parish Circle of the town of St. Paul. Mr. Lafontaine is
prominent among the professional men of the city and has many
friends among the younger generation of lawyers. He has already
succeeded in gaining a great amount of confidence and good-will
among the general public.


JAMES G. DAY.

James G. Day was born in Montreal, December 12, 1834. He had
therefore passed the seventy-second milestone on life’s journey,
when called to the home beyond. He was one in a family of nine
children, whose father, John J. Day, was born in London, but came
to Montreal and was one of the most active men of his time in the
city. He was particularly interested in all things pertaining to
its welfare and progress and his aid in public movements was of a
beneficial character.

James G. Day was educated in Montreal and took the law course at
McGill University. He was admitted to the bar in Montreal. He
engaged in the practice of his profession until 1866, when he was
compelled to abandon it because of poor health. After spending
one year in the United States he returned to Montreal and became
a member of the firm of Hutchins & Company, wholesale tea
merchants, and there continued for a few years. He then engaged
in the coal business until his failing health caused him to seek
a change. He then located at Troy, New York, and there resumed
the practice of law, so continuing until his death, January 6,
1907.

It was while a resident of the United States that he was married
in Bloomington, Illinois, to Miss Ellen E. Lewis, a daughter of
Dr. William Lewis, who was an English Army surgeon and spent
twenty years in the West Indies. He was afterward stationed for
a time at Halifax and subsequently removed to Chicago, where he
lived prior to establishing a home in Morris, Grundy county,
Illinois, where his remaining days were passed. He was very
active in his profession, being recognized as an able and eminent
medical practitioner.

Mr. and Mrs. Day had three sons: Dr. John L. Day, engaged in
the practice of his profession in Westmount; Albert J. Day, who
is with Greenshields & Company; and Maurice Baldwin Day, acting
manager of the Bourbonniere branch of the Union Bank of Canada,
at Montreal.


HENRY MILES.

Henry Miles in 1895 became one of the founders of the firm of
Leeming, Miles & Company of Montreal, importers and manufacturers
of drugs, chemicals and proprietary articles in the drug and
grocery lines. He has since been an active factor in the
successful control of the business and to other fields of
activity has extended his efforts with equally desirable results.
He was born in Lennoxville, P. Q., May 8, 1854. His father, the
late Henry Hooper Miles, D. C. L., LL. D., a well known historian
and for twenty-five years vice principal of Bishop’s College at
Lennoxville, afterward became secretary of the Protestant section
of the department of public instruction for the province. He
married Elizabeth Wilson, daughter of Dr. William Wilson, of
Sherbrooke, Quebec.

In the Lennoxville grammar school their son Henry Miles pursued
his preliminary education, which was supplemented by study in
the high school of Quebec and in the Laval Normal School of the
same city. His early business experience came to him through
association with the firm of Lyman, Sons & Company, of which he
became manager and managing partner, his association with the
house continuing from 1870 until 1895, when he separated his
interests and in the latter year organized the firm of Leeming,
Miles & Company of Montreal for the importation and manufacture
of drugs, chemicals and proprietary articles in both the drug
and grocery lines. After continuing for a considerable period as
managing partner he was elected to the presidency of the company
on incorporation. He is also engaged in the manufacture of
medicines as proprietor of a business conducted under the style
of Dick & Company and he is publisher and editor of the Montreal
Pharmaceutical Journal. Even this does not compass the extent
of his business activity, for he is president of the National
Hydro-Electric Company, Ltd., and managing director of the
Carillon Construction & Development Company, Ltd.

[Illustration: HENRY MILES]

Moreover, Mr. Miles is actively and helpfully interested in
organizations for the benefit of trade and business conditions.
He is a member of the Chambre de Commerce, was treasurer of
the Montreal Board of Trade in 1897-98, was vice president in
1899-1900 and in 1901 became president. The present magnificent
Board of Trade building stands as a monument to his energy. He
is still an active member of the organization, and since 1901 he
has been president of the Montreal Business Men’s League, which
has been instrumental in effecting many municipal and other
reforms. He is likewise president of the Proprietary Articles
Trade Association of Canada, secretary-treasurer of the Montreal
Industrial Exhibition Association and in 1900 was a delegate to
the International Commercial Congress at Philadelphia. In 1905 he
was honorary treasurer of the Hon. John Young Monument Committee.
Aside from all these interests of a semi-public character his
activities have been salient features in the attainment of
success for other organizations and for the public good. He
has filled the office of justice of the peace and is consul in
Canada for Paraguay. He was one of the founders of the Montreal
Philharmonic Society and for a time was director of Trinity
church choir, both of which indicate his deep interest in music.
He represented the Montreal Board of Trade at the funeral of
King Edward in London, England, in May, 1910. Fraternally he
is a Mason and an Odd Fellow, in sympathy with the purposes of
those organizations. His religious faith is that of the Anglican
church, and he was for many years warden of Trinity church and
the Church of St. James the Apostle. He has also been a member
of the synod. His political belief is that of the liberal party.
He belongs to the Canada, Montreal and Country Clubs, and those
who meet him in these different organizations find him a social,
genial companion. He has been a thorough and discriminating
student of many questions that pertain to Canada and her welfare,
carrying his researches far and wide. In 1880 he was the author
of the Prize Questions in Canadian History, having won the
first prize, and in 1900 he published an Address on Commercial
Education, indicating deep insight into and thorough knowledge
of the question. He made the customs’ tariff a special study for
years and has written much on that subject.

Mr. Miles was married in 1875 to Miss McGregor, of Montreal.
Nature endowed him with qualities, which developed through
persistent energy and laudable ambition, have brought him into
prominent relations. Inheriting the strong intellectual force
of worthy ancestry, he has developed his talents and his powers
not only in the control and enlargement of important business
interests, but also along lines in which the general public has
been the beneficiary.


REV. DAVID BENSON ROGERS.

Rev. David Benson Rogers, since 1911 rector of St. Luke’s
Episcopal Church, Montreal, was born in Watford, Ontario, and is
a son of John B. Rogers of that city. He acquired his preliminary
education in the public schools there and after graduating from
the Watford high school entered McGill University from which
he was graduated with the degree of B. A. and with first class
honors in mental and moral philosophy, in 1906. Continuing his
studies he received the degree of M. A. in 1909 and in the same
year that of Licentiate in Theology from the Montreal Diocesan
Theological College. He was made deacon in the Episcopal church
in 1908 and received full orders in 1909 and in the former year
was appointed assistant in Grace church, Montreal. In this
position he did sincere and earnest work until 1911 when his
ability and zeal were recognized in his appointment as rector of
St. Luke’s church. He possesses true religious zeal, is earnest,
God-fearing and unostentatious in the discharge of his duties and
has already accomplished a great deal of consecrated work among
his people whose love he holds in large measure. He is moreover
a man of initiative spirit and administrative ability, and under
his able management the business affairs of the church have been
carried forward in an orderly and systematic manner.

On the 19th of April, 1911, Mr. Rogers was united in marriage
to Miss Florence Ethel Hurd, eldest daughter of Henry Hurd of
Montreal. Mr. Rogers is widely and favorably known in Montreal
among his own people and among those of all denominations,
and his influence is felt as a potent force in the moral
development of the community. The doctrines which he professes
he consistently practices, and at all times his life has been
actuated by high and honorable purposes and characterized
by kindly actions and consideration for others. He realizes
fully the obligations which devolve upon him and finds it a
privilege to bring his fellowmen to a knowledge of truth and an
understanding of those principles of life which bring men into
more harmonious relations with the divine law.


CHARLES H. MAGUIRE.

Charles H. Maguire, who figured prominently in insurance circles
in Montreal, was born in Quebec in 1858 and died at The Glade,
Boisbriand, province of Quebec, July 31, 1907. His father was
Hon. Judge Maguire of the superior court of Quebec, a very able
and distinguished citizen and jurist, who was born April 15,
1810, and died July 5, 1880. He married Miss Frances Horan, also
of Quebec.

Their son, Charles H. Maguire, was educated in the seminary of
that city and for a few years was connected with the bank there,
thus receiving his initial business training. About 1897 he came
to Montreal and engaged in the insurance business as a member of
the firm of Esinhart & Maguire, which succeeded the late Walter
Kavanagh as chief agents for the Scottish Union & the National
Insurance Company of Edinburgh. They also became chief agents for
the German-American and the Rochester German Insurance Company,
conducting an insurance business of large proportions, his name
becoming a synonym for successful achievements in insurance
circles.

Mr. Maguire was also active in interests of the city and his
devotion to the public welfare was manifest in many tangible
ways. He was fond of outdoor sports, especially those of an
aquatic character. He always adhered to the religious faith in
which he was reared--that of the Catholic church.

Mr. Maguire was married twice. In Quebec he wedded Miss Mountain,
who is survived by two children: Eustace J. Maguire, now living
in Denver, Colorado; and Sister Mary of the Annunciation, of the
Congregation of Notre Dame. In Montreal, in 1904, Mr. Maguire
wedded Henrietta Kavanagh, a daughter of Henry Kavanagh, who was
born in Carlow, Ireland and came to Montreal in 1838.


LOUIS J. LORANGER, LL. D., K. C.

Louis J. Loranger, a man distinguished by scholarly attainments
and a wide knowledge of commercial law, is practicing at the
Montreal bar as the senior partner in the firm of Loranger,
Loranger & Prud’homme. Born on the 22d of September, 1870,
the eldest son of Hon. Louis Quesime and Marie Anne Rosalie
(Lafranboise) Loranger, of whom more extended mention is made
elsewhere in this work, in the city which is still his place
of residence, he has here since remained, and the record of
his progress is a familiar one to many of his contemporaries,
who recognize the fact that native talent well developed and
opportunities carefully improved have brought him to his present
creditable position as a representative of the legal profession.
He was a student in St. Mary’s College of Montreal and afterward
in Laval University, from which he received the degrees of B.
A. and M. L. A., a special examination later bringing him the
LL. D. degree. He was called to the bar on the 10th of January,
1894, and for eighteen years was a partner of Mr. Justice
Beaudin. Their practice was extensive and of a most important
character. His present position as legal adviser to La Chambre de
Commerce and to the Citizens’ Association and the Association of
Architects indicates his rank among the foremost members of the
Montreal bar. He is also vice president of the International Law
Association and a member of the council of the bar. He was made a
king’s counsel in 1910.

Mr. Loranger is a conservative in politics and is president of La
Jeunesse Conservative. He belongs to the Conservative Club, Le
Club Cartier, the Union Catholique and L’Alliance Nationale. The
name is today an honored one in legal circles not only in Canada
but throughout America, for he has a wide acquaintance among the
eminent representatives of the bar south of the border.


WALTER KAVANAGH.

Walter Kavanagh was one of the best known representatives of
insurance interests in Canada. For a quarter of a century he had
been chief agent for the Scottish Union & National Insurance
Company, for which he did a large business. He also held the
chief agency of the German-American company and recently had
been appointed to the same position with the Rochester German
Insurance Company.

Mr. Kavanagh was of Irish extraction, of which he gave evidence
in his brightness, warmth of heart, geniality and lively wit,
which will long be remembered by those who were his social
associates. As an insurance agent he was full of energy,
aggressive, and thoroughly in earnest in promoting the interests
of the companies he represented. It is but natural that such
success as attended the efforts of Mr. Kavanagh should have
created heart burnings in those who had not the ability to reach
his plane in the insurance world, and that his position should
have been at times jealously envied it is superfluous to mention,
for there were many who tried to emulate his success and many who
sought to rival his popularity. Mr. Kavanagh died November 22,
1905.


FRANCIS WOLFERSTAN THOMAS.

The world has little use for a misanthrope. The worth of the
individual is largely judged by what he has accomplished in
behalf of his fellowmen and, as a modern philosopher has put
it: “Not the good that comes to us but the good that comes to
the world through us is the measure of our success.” Judged by
this standard Francis Wolferstan Thomas was a most successful
man. Along strictly business lines, too, his advancement was
continuous until he stood among the prominent representatives of
banking interests in the country, the growth and development of
The Molson’s Bank of Montreal being attributable in large measure
to his efforts and sound business judgment. He was born at
Moorwinstow, Cornwall, England, January 9, 1834, and was educated
at King Edward VI School in Sherburne, Dorsetshire. It was the
family wish that he should enter the priesthood of the Anglican
church; and later he was intended for the army, but before a
commission was procured he came to Canada, arriving here in
October, 1851. He came of ancestry honorable and distinguished.
His paternal grandfather was the Rev. Thomas Thomas, a fellow
of Oxford and vicar of Tidenham in Gloucestershire. He married
Elizabeth Wolferstan, of Hartland, Devon, and their family
included Rev. Francis Wolferstan Thomas, who became rector of
Parkham, North Devon. He married a lady of the ancient and
important family of Shearrue, whose seat is at Woodlands,
Cornwall. They were the parents of Francis Wolferstan Thomas.

The latter came to Canada with the intention of following
agricultural pursuits, but gave up that plan and turned his
attention to engineering, securing temporary employment with the
Grand Trunk Railway Company. Soon afterward, however, he sought
other employment and his native talents and training gained him
recognition in appointment to a position in the Bank of Upper
Canada. A year later James Stevenson, the cashier of the Quebec
Bank, who was then managing the Bank of Montreal, offered Mr.
Thomas a position, which he accepted. He was afterward rapidly
promoted in recognition of his ability and the rapidity with
which he mastered the various phases of the banking business,
until in 1865 he was appointed manager of the London branch of
the bank in western Canada. In 1870 the position of cashier in
Molson’s Bank was offered him and after carefully considering
the subject of making a change he at length accepted, and the
continuous growth and development of the bank from that time
until his death testified to his ability, resourcefulness
and initiative. He occupied a commanding position in banking
circles, his opinions being largely accepted as authority upon
all vital questions of the financial world of Canada. He was
also a director of the Canadian Life Assurance Company. His high
standing among the financiers of the country is indicated in
the fact that in 1896 he was honored with the presidency of
the Dominion Bankers Association, and he was also a member of
the council of the Montreal Board of Trade and chairman of the
bankers’ branch of the Board of Trade. He was likewise a director
of the Montreal Cemetery Company.

[Illustration: F. WOLFERSTAN THOMAS]

In 1861 Mr. Thomas was married to Harriet Amelia Goodhue, a
native of London, Ontario, and third daughter of the late Hon.
George Jarvis Goodhue, M. L. C., and a representative of one
of the distinguished families of Salem, Massachusetts. Nine
children were born to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas, of whom four are
living. Mrs. Thomas ably seconded her husband in his many
philanthropic and beneficent efforts. She has served as manager
of the Ladies’ Benevolent Society for thirty-four years and was
its treasurer for nineteen years; she was first directress of the
Mackay Institute for Protestant Deaf Mutes and the Blind; first
directress of the Church Home; and president of the Montreal
School of Cookery, founded by the Princess Louise. Both Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas held membership in the Church of England. Probably
no other man in the city led such an active and useful life in
respect to charities and public movements having to do with the
upbuilding and welfare of Montreal. For years he was a prominent
member of the Good Government Association. He was also a director
of the Art Association and was a member of the council of the
Board of Arts and Manufactures. No good work done in the name of
charity or religion ever sought his aid in vain. He was a member
of the committee of managers of the Montreal General Hospital
and of the St. John’s Ambulance Association, and thus he reached
out in helpful spirit toward the unfortunate. He was treasurer
of the Church Home, treasurer of the Protestant Hospital for the
Insane, treasurer of the Andrews Home, treasurer of the Murray
Bay Convalescent Home, president of the Mackay Institute for
Protestant Deaf Mutes and the Blind, and vice president of the
Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. In
1894 he was elected president of the Montreal General Hospital
and the following year was chosen president of the St. George
Society. He was for many years an exemplary representative of the
Masonic fraternity and was district deputy grandmaster of the
London district. One of his most successful accomplishments was
the erection of the Montreal General Hospital Jubilee Training
Home for Nurses in 1897. While eminently successful in business,
he regarded his banking interests as but one phase of life, and
it never was allowed to overshadow his duties to his fellowmen.
It would be more just to say that it was a deep interest in
mankind rather than a sense of duty that prompted his active
support of and cooperation in the many movements with which
he became allied--movements which seek to ameliorate the hard
conditions of life for the unfortunate, to advance the interests
of science, to promote civilization and uplift mankind.

Mr. Thomas passed away on May 18, 1900, and the Montreal Star in
an editorial said: “In mourning the death of Mr. F. Wolferstan
Thomas, Montreal sorrows for the loss of one of her most
prominent and useful citizens. A successful banker Mr. Thomas
was, as the growth of Molson’s Bank under his guidance shows;
but he was more than that. He was a citizen in the fullest sense
of that much abused word. At every point he bore the duties
that attach to citizenship duties, that far too many busy men
neglect. Then he was a philanthropist, as his long and valuable
services in connection with the General Hospital, the Mackay
Institute and the other establishments founded for the succor of
the sick and suffering abundantly demonstrate. The mere list of
the associations for the good of his fellowmen with which he was
actively connected, make up a long paragraph. As his sympathies
enrolled him among the forces which ease the grind of life for
the unfortunate, so his stanch integrity and keen judgment
classed him with those who made for honest government and just
laws.

“His influence for good--both the good that smiles in charity and
the good that is stern against aggression--will be missed in the
community; as his tall straight figure will be missed from the
streets and from such assemblies of citizens as gather for deeds
of brotherhood and public benefit.”


REV. JOHN C. BROPHY.

Rev. John C. Brophy, pastor of St. Agnes’ Catholic church in
Montreal, exemplifies in his beneficial, upright and useful life
the high ideals of the priesthood he represents and has become a
force in the spread of Catholic doctrines and the promotion of
Catholic education among the people of the city.

St. Agnes’ parish was organized in 1905 of English-speaking
people, and the services were held first in a room in St.
John Baptist church. Later the congregation, which has grown
continually since the foundation of the parish, gathered in a
hall in St. John Baptist Market where they listened to the wise
counsel of the founder and first parish priest, Rev. W. J. Casey.
He died May 13, 1912, and was succeeded by Rev. John C. Brophy,
the present incumbent, who has proved a worthy follower in his
footsteps. Father Brophy has about five hundred Catholic families
under his charge and has already accomplished excellent work
among them, holding their love and respect in large measure. He
has taken a great interest in the cause of Catholic education
and has carried forward the work along this line, begun by his
predecessor, by his able superintendence of the Olier School
for boys, and the Sacred Heart Academy for girls. This latter
institution is under the direction of the sisters of the Holy
Names of Jesus and Mary.

Father Brophy’s life has been one of earnest and consecrated
usefulness, for he constantly exemplifies in his actions the high
doctrines in which he believes. A man of good business ability,
he has proved an excellent administrator of the business affairs
of his parish, and his example of spiritual attainment and
self-sacrificing labor may well serve as an inspiration to his
people.


THOMAS CAMPBELL BULMER.

The attractive suburb of Westmount is largely the monument to the
business enterprise and progressive methods of Thomas Campbell
Bulmer, now deceased, who was almost a lifelong resident of
Montreal, and for a long period an active factor in its business
circles. He was born at Three Rivers, Quebec, in 1846, and was
educated in the public schools there and in Montreal, being
brought to the latter city when a youth of ten years by his
father, Thomas Bulmer, who was a native of Yorkshire, England,
and on coming to Canada settled at Three Rivers, but in 1856
removed to Montreal, where for many years he was active as a
contractor and builder. He married Anna Phoebe Fearon, also a
native of England.

When his school days were over, Thomas Campbell Bulmer served an
apprenticeship to the book binding trade, became proficient as a
workman and in 1868 joined Henry Morton and Charles Phillips in
a partnership under the style of Morton, Phillips & Bulmer. The
business developed and grew until the firm occupied a prominent
position among stationers, blank book makers and printers. A
few years prior to his death Mr. Bulmer withdrew from that
connection, in which he had realized a handsome profit, to engage
in the real-estate business at Westmount. He was recognized as
the father of that beautiful suburb, having been one of the
first men to foresee the value of that section as a residential
district. He was actively engaged to the time of his death in its
improvement, development and upbuilding and made it one of the
beautiful suburban districts of Montreal.

Mr. Bulmer passed away on April 7, 1902. For many years he had
been an exemplary representative of the Masonic fraternity and
had been equally faithful as a member of the Anglican church.
Sterling motives and high principles guided him in all of his
relations and made him an upright man, so that he left behind him
not only the substantial rewards of earnest, persistent labor,
but also that good name which is to be chosen in preference to
great riches.


NAPOLEON GIROUX.

Napoleon Giroux, a native of Montreal, where he was born August
12, 1863, is a successful merchant of this city, where he has
also other property interests. He conducts a book and stationery
store, which he owns. He is a son of Carolus and Mary (Hayes)
Giroux, the former a carpenter-contractor.

Napoleon Giroux received his education in the Jesuit College and
the University of Ottawa. He chose the book-selling line as his
life vocation and became a clerk in an establishment of that
character. He later made himself independent and now owns one of
the most profitable stores in the city of this character.

On the 13th of October, 1884, Mr. Giroux was married in Montreal
to Miss Rose Anna Galipeau, a daughter of Louis and Vitaline
(Gariepy) Galipeau, the former a contractor-builder. Mr. and
Mrs. Giroux have five children: Charlemagne; Albina, who married
Joseph Casgrain; Eva; Emile, who married Miss Juliette Jalbert;
and Hubert. Both Mr. and Mrs. Giroux are popular in social
circles of the city. The former is public-spirited and has always
taken a deep interest in municipal affairs, public honors having
come to him in his election to the office of alderman of the city
of Montreal, in which capacity he has served since 1902. Both he
and his family are devout communicants of the Catholic church.
He is president of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul of the
parish of St. Pierre and also belongs to the Cercle St. Pierre.
The success which Mr. Giroux has achieved as a bookseller must
be ascribed to his discriminating taste as a man of letters.
His excellent education has well prepared him for carefully
selecting his stock of books, and his gracious and kindly
demeanor to his patrons is continually adding to the list of his
satisfied customers. Mr. Giroux has widened his views upon life
and enhanced his classical education by extensive travels, having
visited Europe on various occasions.


JOSEPH EMILE VANIER.

In the ranks of civil engineers and architects of Montreal Joseph
Emile Vanier has constantly forced his way to the front until he
is today widely and favorably known as a specialist in municipal
engineering and architecture. He was born at Terrebonne, P. Q.,
January 20, 1858, a son of the late Emilien and Lucie (Soucy)
Vanier, the former at one time a produce merchant of Montreal.
In his youth Joseph Emile Vanier became a pupil in the Jacques
Cartier normal school and attended successively the Commercial
Academy and the Polytechnic School of Montreal, a department
of Laval University. He was graduated therefrom with honors
with the class of 1877, and entered upon the practice of his
profession in which he has since continued, making a specialty
of municipal engineering and architecture. He has given special
attention to public engineering projects in the cities and towns
surrounding Montreal and has been retained as expert engineer
by the Dominion and Quebec governments. He is secretary for
the Architects Association of Quebec, and he designed the New
Polytechnic School of Montreal in 1904. He was elected president
of the Montreal Polytechnic School Association in 1910. He is a
member of the Society of Civil Engineers, a member of the Société
des Ingénieurs Civils de France and a member of the society of
Architects of the Province of Quebec.

The Montreal Gazette says that Mr. Vanier has ever been “a credit
to his province.” He believes in “Canada for the Canadians,”
and this has been the policy upon which he has worked in behalf
of public interests. His religious faith is that of the Roman
Catholic church. He maintains his residence in Montreal in the
winter seasons and has a summer home, Beauverger, at Ste. Rose,
P. Q. In club and sporting circles he is also well known. He
belongs to Club Canadien, Club Lafontaine, the Fish and Game
Club, the Engineers Club and the Automobile and Aero Club of
Montreal.


PIERRE LOUIS DUPUIS.

Among the recent additions to the Montreal bar is Pierre Louis
Dupuis, who has already gained a reputation which many an older
practitioner of law might well envy. He was born in the parish
of La Longue Pointe on the 3d of September, 1887, a son of
Louis Napoleon Dupuis, former merchant, one of the founders of
Dupuis Freres, Limited, and for some time controller of the city
of Montreal. The mother, who bore the maiden name of Melanie
Levesque, was a daughter of the late Pierre Thomas Levesque,
whose ancestors rendered valuable services to the province and
Dominion in judicial and legislative capacities.

[Illustration: PIERRE L. DUPUIS]

In the acquirement of his education, Pierre Louis Dupuis pursued
a classical course at L’Assomption Collège, which he attended
from 1900 until 1908, winning the Bachelor of Arts degree in that
institution. He took up the study of law in Laval University,
which he attended from 1908 until his graduation on the 26th of
June, 1911, with the LL. L. degree. On the 4th of August, 1911,
he was admitted to the bar.

His commercial course was pursued in Eastman’s Business College
at Poughkeepsie, New York, during the meantime, and he was
graduated with honors from the institution on the 30th of
September, 1910.

Before locating permanently in Montreal, for the practice of his
profession, Mr. Dupuis took an extended European trip, having
previously traveled extensively in both Canada and the United
States. He entered upon the active practice of his profession
in January, 1912. Most liberal educational opportunities had
been his and added to his knowledge is laudable ambition and
unfaltering determination, qualities which are building up for
him a large and gratifying practice. At the beginning of his
professional career in January, 1912, he became junior partner
of the law firm of Dussault, Mercier & Dupuis, recognized as
one of the strong law firms of the city. In addition Mr. Dupuis
is connected with many financial interests and his judgment
in business as well as professional interests is sound and
discriminating.

In politics Mr. Dupuis is a conservative, well informed on
significant and vital problems. He belongs to the Catholic
church, the Knights of Columbus, the Canadian Club and the
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association--associations which
indicate the nature of his interests and his recreation and the
principles which govern his conduct.

On the 15th of January, 1913, Mr. Dupuis was married, at St.
Benoit, in the county of Two Mountains, to Miss Carmel Girouard,
a daughter of Joseph Girouard, a notary and ex-deputy of Two
Mountains, who is a conservative leader of that district. The
Girouards are of the earliest and most prominent French families
of the province. Mr. Dupuis has one son, Rene, born October 9,
1913.


ALFRED HAWKSWORTH.

A spirit of business enterprise and laudable ambition advanced
Alfred Hawksworth to an enviable position among the manufacturers
of Montreal where the latter years of his life were passed. In
the course of an active career he learned to discriminate readily
between the essential and nonessential and utilizing the former
and discarding the latter he met success in his undertakings. He
was, at the time of his death at the head of the firm of Alfred
Hawksworth & Sons, Limited.

He was born on the 9th of October, 1846, at Glossop, Derbyshire,
England, a son of Samuel Hawksworth, who always remained a
resident of England. In early manhood Alfred Hawksworth crossed
the Atlantic to the United States and settled at Lonsdale,
Rhode Island, where he was employed in connection with the
cotton mills of that place. Subsequently he removed to Concord,
Massachusetts, and was made overseer of Daymen & Smith’s cotton
mill. His expanding powers and growing ability later lead to
his appointment to the responsible position of manager of the
largest cotton mill at Manville, Rhode Island, and during his
residence there he invented a loom for the weaving of velvet
and plush. At different times he was in charge of cotton mills
at New Bedford and Newburyport, Massachusetts, and Pawtucket,
Providence, and Pontiac, Rhode Island, being thus identified with
some of the largest manufacturing interests of that class in New
England, while in Pontiac he was for eight years superintendent
of the cotton mills of B. B. & R. Knight, and by reason of
his responsible position, was accounted one of the foremost
business men of that place. He also became an important factor
in the public life of the community, being greatly interested
in everything that pertained to the general welfare. He sought
earnestly and effectively to improve roads, schools and libraries
and in fact to advance any measure relative to the public good.

On the 19th of March, 1895, Mr. Hawksworth arrived in Montreal,
becoming manager of the Merchants cotton mills at St. Henri, now
a part of the plant of the Dominion Textile Company, Limited.

About eight years prior to his death he resigned that position
and established the mill supply house of Alfred Hawksworth &
Sons, Limited, which was incorporated in 1905 and is still
one of the important productive industries of Montreal. The
business from its inception proved a profitable one and under the
careful guidance of its founder, developed into one of the large
enterprises of this character in Canada. Mr. Hawksworth, through
long experience, was familiar with every phase of the manufacture
of cotton goods and knew the needs relative thereto, his mill
supply house being an outgrowth of his experience and knowledge.

While living in Lonsdale, Rhode Island, in June, 1871, Mr.
Hawksworth was united in marriage to Miss Esther A. Moss, a
daughter of Edward Moss of that place, and they became the
parents of a daughter and five sons: Fred, of Montreal; Edward,
who is connected with the Hawksworth & Sons Company, Limited;
Harry, who is vice president of that company; Walter L., who is
secretary-treasurer, and also assistant manager of the supply
house; and Lester A. The daughter, Miss Alice M. Hawksworth, is
at home with her mother.

Mr. Hawksworth joined the Masonic fraternity in Concord,
Massachusetts, in 1870, and in June, 1903, was made a life member
of the Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 8, F. & A. M., of Limerock, Rhode
Island. He was also made an honorary member of Mount Moriah
Club at Limerock and in Masonry he attained the Knights Templar
degree. He was a communicant in St. Simon’s church in Montreal
and his entire life was actuated by high and honorable purposes
and manly principles. He was a great reader, possessing scholarly
taste and his private library contained three thousand volumes
with the contents of which he was largely familiar, spending many
of his pleasant hours in close association with men of master
minds within the four walls of his library.

Mr. Hawksworth could truly be called a self-made man--a title
of which he had every reason to be proud. It indicated not only
his substantial success in business, but also his intellectual
growth and progress. Along the former line he possessed notable
ability in coordinating force and unifying elements into a
harmonious whole. More than his success, the breadth of his mind
and character commanded respect and endeared him to those with
whom he came in contact. In his leisure hours he was always to be
found at his own fireside or in those circles where intelligent
men were wont to meet in discussion of vital problems, and when
he passed away on the 16th of February, 1913, a feeling of deep
regret was manifested by all of his associates, for his genuine
worth had given him firm hold upon the affections of those with
whom he was brought in contact.


THOMAS BASSETT MACAULAY.

Thomas Bassett Macaulay, actuary and well known in insurance
circles, not only in Montreal but throughout Canada and the
United States, has aside from his business affairs led a life of
intense and well directed activity, being identified with various
organized movements which have to do with the promotion of moral
progress or which seek to alleviate hard conditions of life for
the unfortunate.

Mr. Macaulay is a native of the province of Ontario, having been
born in Hamilton on the 6th of June, 1860, a son of Robertson and
Barbara Maria (Reid) Macaulay. After pursuing his early education
in Hamilton he continued his studies in Montreal and made his
initial step in the business world in the service of the Sun
Life Assurance Company of Canada at Montreal in October, 1877.
He bent every energy to the mastery of the duties intrusted to
him and the recognition of his ability and faithfulness came to
him in promotion. In 1880 he was appointed actuary and in 1891
was made secretary of the company. In 1898 he was elected a
director and in 1906 became managing director of a corporation
that is acknowledged to be one of the strongest and most reliable
insurance companies of the world. By examination he became a
fellow of the Institute of Actuaries of Great Britain and is
now supervisor at Montreal in connection with examinations of
the institute. He is a charter member of the Actuarial Society
of America and was honored with election to its presidency in
1899 and in 1901, while he is now a life member of its council.
He has indeed a wide reputation in his profession and extended
acquaintance. He is a member of the Royal Statistical Society of
England, a corresponding member of the Institute des Actuaires
Françaises de France and in 1895 was again a delegate to the
International Commerce of Actuaries in Brussels, and again in
1898 in London and in 1900 in Paris. At the last mentioned he was
elected vice president to represent both the United States and
Canada. He was also elected vice president of the International
Actuaries Association in 1906.

Important and responsible are the duties which have come to
Mr. Macaulay with his developing powers, and he finds rest
and recreation therefrom in his interests in farming and
stock-raising. He has valuable farming property at Hudson
Heights, Quebec. He also has other business connections, being
a director of the Illinois Traction Company, of the National
Trust Company and of the Dominion Glass Company. He is likewise
actively interested in organizations having to do with the public
welfare, being a governor of the Montreal General Hospital. He
is likewise a governor of the Congregational College of Canada
which is indicative of his church relationship. In 1911 he was
elected president of the Congregational Union of Canada. The same
year he was elected president of the Canadian and West Indian
League. He is a careful student of all the vital problems and
questions of the age and fearlessly he pronounces his opinions
yet is never aggressive. He favors the imposition of a moderate
import duty by the United Kingdom and colonies to be kept
distinct from local duties and to be applied to imperial defence.

In 1881, Mr. Macaulay was married to Miss Henrietta M. L. Bragg,
who died in 1910. She was the daughter of the late Oliver Bragg,
M. D., and a step-daughter of the Rev. J. Lawson Forster, D. D.,
of London, England. In 1912 he married Miss Margaret Allen, a
daughter of the late Rev. William Allen of London, England. Many
have expressed the opinion that he should take a more active part
in public life for his qualifications are such as would make him
a powerful factor in the discussion of important questions. He is
an agreeable speaker, clear, fluent and forceful, and he has the
ability of instructing while entertaining. It would be difficult
to mention the line along which his usefulness has been greatest
for he has accomplished much in various connections, and his
work has ever been an influencing factor on the side of reform,
progress, improvement and right.


THE BAGG FAMILY.

The Bagg family is one of the oldest English families on the
island of Montreal and one whose members have been foremost in
social, financial, religious, political and military circles
for the past century, or since the arrival of the first
representative of the name, Stanley Bagg, Esq., who was born in
County Durham, England, where this branch of the family possessed
large landed estates. In Canada for the past three-quarters of
a century such men as Lieutenant Colonel Stanley Clark Bagg,
scholar, financier and philanthropist, and his son, the late
Robert Stanley Bagg, a worthy son of an honored sire, have placed
the name on a high plane.

Stanley Bagg, Esq., the first of this family to settle in
Montreal, was born in England in 1786 and died at Fairmount,
the family residence on Sherbrooke Street, October 31, 1853,
aged sixty-seven years. He left to his son, Stanley Clark Bagg,
large landed estates in Montreal and County Durham, England.
Lieutenant Colonel Stanley Clark Bagg, son of Stanley and Mary
Ann (Clark) Bagg, was born at the manor house in Montreal on
December 23, 1820. He studied law and afterwards took up the
notarial profession, which he practiced successfully for a number
of years but abandoned it in order to give his attention to the
management of estates which he inherited from his grandfather, as
well as a freehold property in County Durham, England. He was at
one time the largest landholder on the island of Montreal, gave
many streets and squares to the city and made very substantial
benefactions to the citizens. He was an honorary member of the
Montreal Field Battery and Artillery and of the Light Infantry,
and his name figured in connection with public office through
appointment to the position of one of Her Majesty’s justices
of the peace in 1859, after which he performed judicial
duties for a time. In 1865 he was solicited to become mayor of
Montreal but declined the proffered honor. In politics he was a
conservative but without political ambition, refusing nomination
for a seat in parliament. He was, however, a deep student of
the questions of the times, wrote largely for the press and his
writings were received warmly in both England and America. He was
greatly interested in philanthropic projects and in efforts to
promote intellectual progress. He became one of the founders and
the first president of the English Workingmen’s Benefit Society,
was one of the founders of the Antiquarian and Numismatic
Society, which honored him with its presidency, and a life member
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. He
also belonged to the Cathedral Young Men’s Christian Association,
the Natural History Society and the Mechanics Institute. His
activities had their root in principles inculcated by the
Church of England and he was a devoted member of Christ Church
Cathedral. He married Miss Catharine Mitcheson, a daughter of
Robert and Frances (MacGregor) Mitcheson, natives of England and
Scotland respectively, and died at his residence, “Fairmount,” in
Montreal, August 8, 1873.

[Illustration: ROBERT STANLEY BAGG]

Robert Stanley Bagg, son of Lieutenant Colonel Stanley Clark and
Catharine (Mitcheson) Bagg, and the head of the family in the
third generation in this country, was born at the manor house in
Montreal in July, 1848, and was educated in the Montreal high
school and McGill University, from which he graduated, after
which he proceeded to England to complete his studies. On his
return to Canada he was called to the bar of Montreal but never
practiced law extensively, although he formed a partnership with
Donald Macmaster, now a member of parliament. At his father’s
death, however, the management of the largest landed estate on
the island devolved upon him, so that he abandoned the active
practice of the legal profession.

Much of his time and energy was also given to public life and
he was considered a powerful platform orator. In 1896 he was
nominated for the St. Lawrence division seat in the house
of commons, but resigned for political reasons. His father,
Lieutenant Colonel Bagg, was a Tory and a personal friend of
the late Sir John A. Macdonald, and it was natural that the
son should espouse early in life the conservative cause. He
was frequently heard on the platform in support of principles
of the party, being known as a stanch conservative both in
and out of power, while at one time he was president of the
Liberal-Conservative Club, giving a great deal of his time to
the work of organizing as well as to public discussion. He was
well known among the French Canadian people and spoke their
language almost as fluently as his mother tongue. Mr. Bagg was
mentioned several times as the party candidate in the federal
contests, but the house of commons had no attraction for him.
He was known personally to all the party leaders from the time
of Macdonald down to the present day. Like his father, he was a
most generous supporter of charities and benevolent projects,
and he was a governor and benefactor of the Montreal General
Hospital and the Montreal Dispensary. He was likewise a member of
almost every social and sporting club on the island of Montreal;
was a splendid horseman and a good soldier, being at one time
commanding officer in the Fifth Royal Scots, taking part in the
quelling of the Quebec riots and doing much active military duty.

Mr. Bagg had been ailing for several months, but the call came
unexpectedly and he died July 22, 1912, at Kennebunk Port,
Maine, where he was spending the summer, as was his custom. In
his passing Montreal lost one of its foremost citizens, a most
prominent representative of one of the old English families, and
a man of distinction to whom opportunity meant activity, and who
in all of his business and social relations maintained a position
that reflected credit and honor upon an honored family name.
His life was not self-centered but reached out along broadening
lines for the benefit of his fellowmen and of his city, where the
family has so long been well known in the best social circles.

Mr. Bagg was married in 1882 to Miss Clara Smithers, a daughter
of the late Charles F. Smithers, president of the Bank of
Montreal, and to them were born three children, Evelyn St. Claire
Stanley, Gwendolen Katherine Stanley and Harold Stanley.

Evelyn St. Claire Stanley Bagg was married on the 26th of
October, 1910, to Huntly Ward Davis, an architect of Montreal,
and they have one daughter, Evelyn Clare Ward Davis, who is of
the fifth generation of the family in Canada.


SERAPHIN OUIMET.

Seraphin Ouimet, member of the civil engineering firm of Ouimet
& Lesage, connected with important municipal and railroad work
in Montreal and in various other sections of the province and
Dominion, was born October 8, 1879, in Ste. Rose, in the county
of Laval, P. Q. The earliest record of the Ouimet family in this
province is of Jean Ouimet, who was born in 1634 and died on
the 19th of November, 1687, at Ste. Famille. He married Renee
Gagnon about 1660 and their son, Louis Ouimet, who was one of
nine children, was married February 3, 1693, at Ste. Famille to
Marie Anne Genest, by whom he had thirteen children. Anselme
Ouimet, father of Seraphin Ouimet, was born at St. François de
Sales, about 1840 and married Emelie Gauthier, who was born in
Montreal about 1850. Their son, Seraphin Ouimet, attended school
in his native town of Ste. Rose and afterward pursued a classical
course at Ste. Thérèse in the county of Terrebonne, where he
remained for seven years and was leader of his class, and where
he gained his B. C. es Lettres. Later he became a student in
the Polytechnic school at Laval. He passed his examination with
distinction, graduating June 10, 1904, with the degree of B. C.
es Sciences. He next engaged with the dominion government as
superintendent of Marconi stations on the Gulf, having charge of
five stations. He continued in that position for one season and
was appointed assistant engineer of the Georgian Bay Ship Canal
survey. After four months in that position he was promoted to
first assistant and two months later to chief. He continued for
eighteen months in that capacity, rendering efficient, capable
and acceptable service until, desiring to engage in the private
practice of his profession, he opened an office in Montreal. He
passed his examination as Quebec land surveyor on June 17, 1908,
before the board of the Quebec Land Surveyors Association. For
a year he was associated with James H. Parent, at the close of
which time he entered into partnership with Royal Lesage and has
since continued under the firm name of Ouimet & Lesage. Their
clientage has steadily increased in the interim and their work
today extends largely over the province, including many contracts
for municipal engineering and railroad work. They have been
connected with the building of a branch of the Transcontinental,
extending from Montreal and have acted as experts for municipal
civil engineering projects in connection with important work
for electric and other companies. They employ over twenty men,
and the business is one of growing importance. Mr. Ouimet is
recognized as a clever, energetic and successful representative
of his profession, widely known and highly respected. His
ability, close study and developing powers have gained him wider
and wider recognition until he stands today as one of the able
representatives of the profession in Montreal.


DUNCAN CAMPBELL MACCALLUM, M. D., M. R. C. S.

Distinguished honors came to Duncan Campbell MacCallum, M. D.,
in recognition of his marked ability as a medical practitioner,
educator and author. He was in the vanguard of those men to whom
science revealed in considerable measure her secrets, his wide
research and investigation giving him place with the most eminent
of the Canadians connected with the medical profession. He was a
fellow of the Obstetrical Society of London, a foundation fellow
of the British Gynecological Society and professor emeritus of
McGill University. He was born at Ile aux Noix, in the province
of Quebec, on the 12th of November, 1825, and died November 13,
1904. He came of pure Scotch ancestry, his parents being John
and Mary (Campbell) MacCallum. His maternal grandfather, Malcolm
Campbell, of Killin, was a near kinsman, through Lochiel Cameron,
of the Earl of Breadalbane.

Dr. MacCallum’s early professional training was received in
McGill University, from which he was graduated M. D. in 1850. He
then proceeded to Great Britain and studied in London, Edinburgh
and Dublin, pursuing post-graduate courses in all three cities.
Upon examination he was admitted to the Royal College of Surgeons
in England in 1851 and his preliminary training was so thorough
and comprehensive as to place him beyond the point of mediocrity
even at the outset of his professional career. Returning to
Montreal, he entered upon active practice in this city and
almost immediately became known, as well, as an able educator
and writer upon medical topics. He was appointed demonstrator of
anatomy in McGill in 1854 and was connected with the faculty of
medicine until his death. In 1856 he was appointed to the chair
of clinical surgery and in November, 1860, was transferred to the
chair of clinical medicine and medical jurisprudence, occupying
that position until April, 1868, when he was appointed professor
of midwifery and the diseases of women and children. He retained
that professorship until 1883, when he resigned, at which time
the governors of the university made him professor emeritus, so
that he retained his precedence in the university, in which he
had continued as a professor for almost thirty years.

The active work of the profession aside from private practice was
carried on by Dr. MacCallum as visiting physician to the Montreal
General Hospital from 1856 until 1877, when, after twenty-one
years’ service, he resigned and by vote of the governors was
placed on the consulting staff of the hospital. From 1868 until
1883 he had charge of the Lying-in Hospital and for fourteen
years was physician to the Hervey Institute for Children.
His writings gained him almost a world-wide reputation. He
contributed articles to the British American Medical and Surgical
Journals, to the Canada Medical Journal and the Transactions
of the Obstetrical Society of London, England. In 1854 he was
associated with Dr. William Wright in establishing and editing
the Medical Chronicle, which paper remained in existence for six
years. Dr. MacCallum was vice president for Canada of the section
of obstetrics in the Ninth International Medical Congress, which
was held at Washington, D. C., in September, 1887. His eminent
ability and broad learning made him looked upon as a leader in
the ranks of the medical profession on the American continent and
also gained him recognition abroad, so that he was elected to
fellowship in the Obstetrical Society of London and was chosen to
become one of the foundation fellows of the British Gynecological
Society. On the 1st of March, 1855, he was appointed assistant
surgeon of the Sixth Battalion of Montreal Militia and on the
15th of February, 1856, was appointed surgeon to the same.

In October, 1867, Dr. MacCallum was united in marriage to Miss
Marie Josephine Guy, the second daughter of Hon. Hippolyte Guy,
judge of the superior court of lower Canada and a representative
of ancestry, honorable and distinguished. The children born
to Dr. and Mrs. MacCallum were: Marie Josephine, who married
Professor Thomas A. Starkey of McGill University, of whom there
is mention in these volumes and by whom she has one son, Hugh
Starkey; Esther Melina; Marianne, who married Edward Desbarats,
of Montreal, and has seven children--Edward, Duncan, Josephine,
Henry, Lucy Anne, Cecile and Henri; Flora Victoria, who married
de Les Derniers Shepherd, of Montreal; and Duncan Guy, who won
the degree of M. D. at McGill University in 1907 and is now a
medical practitioner of Sherbrooke, Quebec.

The life work of Dr. MacCallum was one of signal service and
benefit to mankind and his name deserves to be enrolled with
those of the benefactors of the race.


JOSEPH ALEXANDRE BONIN.

Joseph Alexandre Bonin, one of the prominent and successful
barristers of Montreal, where he practices as a member of the
firm of Taillon, Bonin & Morin, was born in D’Autray, Lanoraie,
province of Quebec, a son of the late J. B. Bonin. In the
acquirement of an education he attended Joliette College and was
called to the bar as advocate in 1874, being made king’s counsel
in 1893. He has been for many years in the successful practice of
his profession in Montreal, where the firm of Taillon, Bonin &
Morin is regarded as one of the strongest in the city, connected
through an extensive and representative clientele with a great
deal of notable litigation. Mr. Bonin’s wide experience and
successful practice have secured for him a large following, and
his comprehensive knowledge of legal principles has made him very
successful in the conduct of cases intrusted to his care. His
mind is incisive, analytical and deductive and his powers have
been developed through the years, until today he is one of the
most able and prominent barristers in the city where he makes his
home.

[Illustration: J. ALEXANDRE BONIN]

Mr. Bonin married a daughter of the late J. L. Leprohon, M.
D., vice consul for Spain in Montreal, and Mr. and Mrs. Bonin
are well known in social circles of this city. Mr. Bonin is a
member of the Roman Catholic church and is a conservative in his
political beliefs, taking an intelligent and public-spirited
interest in municipal growth and advancement. He has gained
prominence and distinction in a profession where advancement
depends entirely upon superior merit and ability and stands among
the barristers whose work is important as an element in the legal
history of this province.


GUY FAMILY.

The Guy family is one of the oldest and most prominent in
Montreal. Pierre Guy, the first of the name to settle in Canada,
joined the French army under M. de Vaudreuil and rose rapidly
through intermediate positions to the rank of captain. He
participated in the engagements which occurred with frequency
between the French in Quebec and the English in Massachusetts
and New York and he died at the age of forty-eight years. His
son, a namesake, Pierre Guy, Jr., was educated in France and also
joined the French army in Canada, serving under General Montcalm
in the French and Indian war. He participated in the battles of
Caillion, Montmorency and the battle on the Plains of Abraham.
When the power of France in Canada was set at naught, he with
others left for France, where he remained until 1764. He then
returned to Canada and accepted a business situation in Montreal,
becoming a loyal subject of Great Britain. Soon afterward when
General Montgomery invaded Canada he took up arms for the defence
of the country which so exasperated the Americans that they
sacked his stores after the capitulation of the city. In 1776
he received from the Crown the appointment of judge and in 1782
became a colonel of militia. He was also active in founding
the college of St. Raphael and was thus prominently identified
with the military, commercial and educational interests of the
province of Quebec. He received from the Crown a large land
grant in Montreal in that part of the city known as Bourgoyne
and he it was who gave Nuns Island to the nuns and he also gave
one-half of Viger Square to the city. At one time he conducted a
large business as a fur trader between Montreal and France. His
activities were so important and his ability so pronounced that
he was a recognized leader in the different fields in which his
labors and efforts were put forth.

Pierre Guy, Jr., died in the year 1812, leaving several sons and
daughters. Of these Louis Guy, who by the death of his father
became the oldest representative of the family, was made a
councillor by King William in February, 1831, and died in 1840.
Guy Street in Montreal was so called in his honor.

He had six children: Emily, who married Lieutenant Colonel De
Salaberry; Caroline, who became the wife of Joseph Baby; Henry,
who was a colonel in the British army; Hippolyte; Joseph, who was
a lawyer of Montreal; and Adine, who married Mr. Pemberton of
Quebec.

Judge Hippolyte Guy, judge of the superior court of Lower
Canada, and the second son of Louis Guy, married Marianne Esther
Nelson, a daughter of James Frederick Nelson and his wife Mary
Ann Adelaide Regnault, the adopted daughter of Chief Justice
Vallieres of Three Rivers, P. Q. Judge Guy died April 19, 1860.
Unto him and his wife were born three daughters and a son. Marie
Louise, the eldest, became the wife of Hon. Chief Justice Austin,
of Nassau and they had three children: Barry, Gloucester and
Charlotte, now Lady Napier. Marie Josephine married Dr. Duncan
Campbell MacCallum, of whom there is made mention on another
page of this work. Marie Ann became the wife of Alex de Lusignan
by whom she had two children, Guy de Lusignan and Esther de
Lusignan. She afterward married Gustave Fabre and by him has
one daughter, Terese, the wife of Mr. L’Africanne. Pierre, the
youngest in the family, died at the age of four years.


LIEUTENANT COLONEL ALFRED EUGENE DAMASE LABELLE.

Few men occupy a more enviable position in business and military
circles than Lieutenant Colonel Alfred E. D. Labelle. He has been
termed “the beau ideal of a soldier,” and his position as one
of the captains of industry in Montreal none question. Montreal
claims him as a native son. He was born August 23, 1866, his
parents being Hospice L. and Leocadie (Masson) Labelle, the
former a grain inspector of Montreal. The son was a student
in Bishop’s Academy and in a commercial school of his native
city, his training in that institution fitting him for the
responsibilities which came upon him after he entered business
circles in 1883 in the employ of the late W. W. Ogilvie, the
miller king. He remained in that connection until the business
was merged into the Ogilvie Flour Mills Company, Limited, in
1897, at which time he became sales manager for Montreal, so
remaining until his retirement from active connection with the
business in 1910. In that year he became managing director of
the St. Lawrence Flour Mills Company, of which he was one of
the principal promoters and as such he stands today as one of
the leading representatives of the productive industries of the
province, bending his energies to constructive direction and
executive control of a business that has already reached mammoth
proportions.

He has active connection and voice in the management of many
organizations looking to the betterment of trade and commercial
relations. He is a member of the Montreal Harbor board, the
Montreal Board of Trade, was president of the Chambre de
Commerce, and is vice president of the Montreal Industrial
Exhibition Association and the Montreal Vehicular Traffic
Association. He is also connected with movements touching
the general interests of society outside the strict field of
business, being councillor of the Red Cross Society and of the
Boy Scout movement. His military career is perhaps even more
brilliant than his business record. He has been long connected
with the volunteer militia service, having joined the Sixty-fifth
Regiment as a private in 1882. He was advanced through various
ranks until he became lieutenant colonel, commanding in 1897 and
in 1902 his name was placed upon the list of retired officers.
Subsequently he commanded the Seventh Infantry Brigade, was
appointed a second time to the command of the Sixty-fifth
Regiment in March, 1907, and is now in command of the Twelfth
Infantry Brigade. He served in the Northwest rebellion in 1885
and was one of its medallists. He was on the staff of the
Victoria Jubilee contingent in London, England, in 1897, when
he was again accorded a medal. He commanded the troops sent
to Valleyfield, P. Q., during the trade riots in 1900, and he
commanded the Canadian Bisley team in 1908. In the previous
year he received a long service decoration and became actively
connected with military training in 1896 as president of the
Montreal Military Institute. He was likewise president of the
Montreal Amalgamated Rifle Association in 1901-2. The Montreal
Witness speaks of him as a “splendid officer, popular and
respected by all.”

Colonel Labelle was married in 1900 to Amelie Sicotte, the second
daughter of the late Hon. L. W. Sicotte. Colonel Labelle is a
Roman Catholic in religious faith and a conservative in political
belief. His club relations are with the leading organizations of
that character in Montreal, including the St. James Club, Club
Lafontaine, Club Canadien, the Military Institute and Club St.
Denis. The analytical trend of his mind readily enables him to
understand the various factors which enter into the successful
control of military interests and of business affairs. He has
ever followed the broad policy of building up rather than of
destroying and in all of his commercial interests has employed
constructive measures, never sacrificing interests of others
to corporation gain. While in military circles he is a strict
disciplinarian, he has at the same time, those qualities which
win personal popularity and respect among subordinates and the
expressions of praise again and again heard from those who have
served under him show that he is justly entitled to be termed
“the beau ideal of a soldier.”


DUNCAN LIVINGSTONE MACDOUGALL.

Duncan Livingstone MacDougall, a merchant of Montreal for many
years and an active church man, whose life was one of broad
usefulness as well as of material success, was born in Kendelton,
Scotland, in 1848, a son of Archibald L. MacDougall, who in the
year 1861 established his home in Montreal. He married Agnes
Livingstone, a cousin of the great explorer and missionary who
was the first man to penetrate into the heart of Africa. Mr. and
Mrs. MacDougall became the parents of two sons, Duncan L. and
John, and a daughter, Mrs. Robert Logie.

Duncan L. MacDougall was a youth of thirteen years when the
family crossed the Atlantic to Canada. His education was acquired
in the schools of Scotland and of Montreal and he crossed the
threshold of business life as bookkeeper for Cochran, Cassills
& Company, boot and shoe merchants, in whose employ he was
continually advanced in recognition of his merit and capability
until eventually he was admitted to partnership, continuing a
member of the firm to the time of his death. He devoted his
undivided attention to the interests of the business and became
an active factor in guiding its affairs. He possessed in large
measure that quality which for want of a better term has been
called commercial sense, seeming to recognize almost intuitively
the points and propositions of business that led toward
prosperity.

Mr. MacDougall was married in Montreal in 1872 to Miss Margaret
B. Patterson, a daughter of William Patterson, who came to Canada
from Edinburgh, Scotland, at an early day and was a veterinary
surgeon of the city to the time of his death. His wife bore
the maiden name of Isabella S. Dunnett. Mrs. MacDougall by her
marriage became the mother of three sons and two daughters,
Archibald Lorne, Alice Maud, William Percival, Edith Margaret and
Duncan Livingstone.

Mr. MacDougall was a member of the Metropolitan Club and was
a very active worker in the American Presbyterian church
cooperating in various lines of church work and contributing
generously to its support. His life was actuated by high and
honorable principles, that found expression in noble deeds and
helpfulness toward those who needed assistance.


ANTHUNE SERGIUS ARCHAMBAULT.

Anthune Sergius Archambault, member of the bar, practicing at
Montreal as an advocate, specializes in the administration of
estates, and is one of the few in Montreal’s legal profession
giving special attention to work in a fiduciary capacity. He was
born at St. Antoine, Vercheres county, on the 9th of November,
1874, a son of Alphonse Archambault and Hermenie Gladu, the
former a farmer by occupation. While spending his youthful days
under the parental roof A. S. Archambault pursued his education
at St. Hyacinthe College, from which he was graduated with the
Bachelor of Arts degree in 1894. He then entered upon the study
of law, which he pursued in Laval University, in 1898 winning
the LL. L. degree. He is an advocate of considerable power and
ability and has made continuous progress in his profession since
taking up the active duties thereof fifteen years ago. He has
gained a good clientage and his practice is of an important
character. He was for some time the legal adviser of the parish
of Sault au Récollet.

[Illustration: ANTHUNE S. ARCHAMBAULT]

Mr. Archambault has been married twice. He first wedded Rose
Helene Patenaude at Montreal on the 7th of May, 1901, and her
death occurred on the fifth anniversary of their marriage. On the
17th of November, 1909, Mr. Archambault was again married, his
second union being with Annie Michaud, of Ahuntsic. There are two
children, Annette and Paul, of the first marriage and also two of
the second, Jean and Marie.


REMI GOHIER, SR.

Remi Gohier, Sr., of Montreal, actively engaged in the
real-estate business which has proved to him a profitable
field of labor, was born on the 7th of September, 1841, at St.
Laurent, Jacques Cartier county, P. Q., a son of Augustin Gohier
dit Belisle and Marguerite Martin dit Ladouceur. The early
ancestors of the Gohier family in the province of Quebec
spelled the name in various ways, including Goyer, etc., but in
France it was spelled Gohier and one of the name was of great
prominence during the reign of Napoleon I.

Remi Gohier was a student in the St. Laurent College and with
his entrance into commercial circles at the age of twenty-two
he became a dry-goods merchant, and for twenty-seven years
was engaged in that business at what is now the corner of
St. Lawrence and DeMontigny Streets. In January, 1891, he
became connected with the real-estate and insurance brokerage
business with his two sons, Arthur E. and Alexandre. Having won
substantial success he has since continued in that business.
He has negotiated many important realty transfers, bought and
sold property on his own account and has won a creditable and
gratifying measure of success. For eight years he was a director
of the Montreal Turnpike Trust Company, and he has done active
public service as justice of the peace for about ten years. About
1906 Mr. Gohier became connected with La Compagnie Des Terrains
Maisonneuve, Limited, and has since been a director of the same,
in which he is extensively interested.

On the 25th of November, 1863, in Montreal, in Notre Dame
Cathedral, Mr. Gohier was united in marriage to Miss Anne
Jeanne Wright, a daughter of Alexander Hamilton and Marguerite
(Scally) Wright. Their children are: Remi, who married Alice
Faille; Emma Isabella, the wife of J. A. Lesieur Desaulniers;
Arthur Edouard, who married Adelina Tetrault; Corrine, the wife
of Eugene Tetrault; Alexandre, who married Charlotte Mongenais;
and Bernice. The family are communicants of the Catholic church,
and Mr. Gohier is a Knight of Columbus. He has membership with
the Liberal Club, which indicates his political belief, and he
is also a member of the Montreal Canadian Club. The family is
highly respected, warm regard being extended father and sons.
The business record of Mr. Gohier has gained for him confidence
and good-will as well as substantial success, and his prosperity
has been the merited reward of his capability and indefatigable
enterprise.


WALTER HAMILTON EWING.

Walter Hamilton Ewing, who is well known throughout Canada and
the United States as a champion shot, is the eldest son of the
late Alexander Miller Ewing and Ida F. (Appleton) Ewing, of
Montreal, and was born in this city on the 11th of February,
1878. He is descended from Irish ancestry. He pursued his
education in the schools of his native city and made his initial
step in the business world with Hodgson Sumner & Company.
Subsequently he became connected with the Hart & Adair Coal
Company and in 1904 organized the Lackawanna Coal Company, Ltd.,
of which he is president.

On the 30th of April, 1902, Mr. Ewing was united in marriage to
Miss Ethel Raeburn McIntyre, a daughter of the late Archibald
McIntyre, of Montreal, and their children are Morris A.,
Marguerite R., Walter James and David Russell.

While in Montreal Mr. Ewing is known as a successful,
enterprising and progressive business man, he has a wide
reputation throughout the continent in connection with his record
as a marksman. He made the highest amateur score at the first
annual shooting tournament of Canadian Indians at Montreal in
May, 1906, winning the Clarendon cup. He won the championship
of the world in trap shooting in July, 1908, at the Olympic
games in London, England. He has won the championship of Canada,
the Grand Canadian Handicap, the Brewers’ & Malsters’ cup and
the Provincial Individual. He also shot on all team trophies,
namely: 8-Man Dominion, 10-Man Provincial, 5-Man International,
5-Man Provincial and 5-Man Lansdowne cup. He is the only man who
ever held the above cups at the same time. Surely he has every
reason to be proud of his record in this connection. Mr. Ewing in
religious faith is a Presbyterian.


REV. JAMES BENNETT.

Rev. James Bennett was born in Scotland and when a young man
came to Montreal, where he continued his education, begun in the
schools of his native land. He entered McGill University, from
which he was graduated with the Bachelor of Arts degree, and
later, having determined to devote his life to the work of the
ministry, he took up the study of theology in Queen’s College at
Kingston, Ontario. He immediately entered upon ministerial duties
as pastor of the Presbyterian church on Cote des Neiges road, but
soon afterward was called to L’Orignal, Ontario, where he filled
a charge until his demise on August 17, 1901. His earnest effort,
his charity and his consecration to the cause was productive of
much good, his labors resulting in the accession of many to the
church.

Rev. Bennett was married in Montreal to Miss Agnes Phillips, a
daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth (Hodge) Phillips, and to them
was born a son, William Phillips Bennett, now of Toronto.


THOMAS PHILLIPS, JR.

Thomas Phillips, well known for many years as a valued resident
of Montreal, his native city, was at one time proprietor of that
section known as Woodbury. He was a son of Thomas Phillips,
Sr., who owned nearly all of what is now Beaver Hall Hill,
where the family home was maintained for many years. The father
was likewise the owner of what is now Phillips square, which
was named in his honor. His landed possessions in fact were
very extensive and their value increased with the growth and
development of the city, making his a valuable estate.

His son, Thomas Phillips, pursued his education in the schools of
Montreal, in Upper Canada College and in Dr. Workman’s private
school. He purchased a farm on the island of Montreal and later
became owner of what is now called Woodbury and constitutes an
attractive portion of the city, having all been laid out in city
lots. There he lived in comparative retirement. He named his
place Woodbury after the old home of Thomas Phillips, Sr., who
came from Woodbury, Devonshire, England, and settled in Montreal.

Thomas Phillips, Jr., married Miss Elizabeth Hodge, also a native
of this city, and a daughter of James Hodge, likewise a farmer on
the island of Montreal. They became the parents of four daughters
and a son: Martha Emily, now deceased; Charlotte E.; Agnes, who
became the wife of Rev. James Bennett and is now a widow living
in Montreal; Mrs. Eleanor A. Perham, the widow of L. D. Perham;
and Thomas Phillips, who at his death left two daughters, now
residents of Scotland.

Mr. Phillips, whose name introduces this review, was a
public-spirited man, and ever interested in the general welfare.
From early manhood he was a member of St. George’s church and
was its oldest member at the time of his demise. He died January
4, 1900, a day therefore that marked the passing of a prominent
representative of one of the oldest families of Montreal and one
whose name has ever been a synonym for honorable manhood and
loyal citizenship.


JOSEPH VERSAILLES.

Progressive development finds a worthy exponent in Joseph
Versailles, whose connection with real-estate operations has been
an element in the material development of his section of the
province. He was born in Montreal on the 28th of March, 1881, a
son of Joseph Versailles and Julie Monarque. Mention is made in
L’Histoire de l’Eglise by Rhorbacher of a companion of Jeanne
d’Arc of the name of Pierre de Versailles. In early Canadian
records the family name frequently appears with many variations,
including that of Martin and Louis Martin of this family who was
born in 1639 and was massacred by the Iroquois Indians at Long
Sault on the 21st of May, 1660. The first record found under the
present family name is that of Guillaume Versailles, who was born
in 1731 and died on the 27th of November, 1751, at Trois Rivières.

Joseph Versailles of this review was a student in St. Mary’s
College (Jesuit) on Bleury Street, Montreal, from which he was
graduated in 1903 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts, having
completed the classical course. Turning from the educational
field of business he was for six years proprietor of a hardware
store and thus laid the foundation for the success which has
since come to him through his activities in the real-estate
field. Three years ago he founded the town of Montreal East and
his real-estate operations there have been a foremost element in
its development and substantial growth. He has recently erected
one of the finest office buildings of Montreal on St. James
Street, its height making it known as one of the skyscrapers.
Mr. Versailles displays marked energy and determination and in
his business career brooks no obstacles that can be overcome by
persistent, energetic and honorable effort. He has thoroughly
qualified himself to discuss every phase of the real-estate
business and with remarkable prescience he has recognized the
possibilities for the city’s growth and the extension of its
suburban interests. The town of Montreal East which he founded
was incorporated June 4, 1910, and since that time he has
continuously served as its mayor, in which connection he has
largely promoted its interests and development.

On the 20th of September, 1904, Mr. Versailles was united in
marriage to Miss Marie Prendergast, a daughter of the late M. J.
A. Prendergast, managing director of La Banque d’Hochelaga for
twenty-five years. He was with the pontifical zouaves in Italy
from 1867 until 1870, engaged in the practice of law following
his return to Canada and then entered upon active connection
with banking interests. The children of Mr. and Mrs. Versailles
are Marguerite, Pauline, Joseph and Yvan. The religious faith
of the family is that of the Roman Catholic church and Mr.
Versailles was founder and the first president, in 1903 and 1904,
of L’Association Catholique de la Jeunesse Canadienne-Française.
In politics he does not maintain a position of aggressive
partisanship. He believes in Canada first, rather than party,
and in Canada for the Canadians and acting upon this belief his
public service has been of benefit to the municipality and the
general interests of society.


LEWIS D. PERHAM.

Lewis D. Perham, who for many years was connected with the
customhouse of Montreal, was born in Russelltown, Quebec, in
1854, a son of Freeman Perham, a farmer of Russelltown. In the
public schools of his native place Lewis D. Perham pursued his
education and also attended a business college in Montreal. His
life in one way was quietly and uneventfully passed, most of it
being devoted to service in the customs department of his adopted
city. For many years he was thus active in the government service
and was occupying that position at the time of his demise. His
long connection with the customs office plainly indicates his
fidelity, capability and promptness in the discharge of his
duties.

In 1885, in Montreal, Mr. Perham was united in marriage to Miss
Eleanor Phillips, a daughter of Thomas Phillips, of whom mention
is made elsewhere in this volume. Four children were born to
them, of whom two are living, Lewis P. and Ruth E.

Mr. Perham was a conservative in politics. For a few years
he held membership with the Orangemen and he belonged to the
American Presbyterian church. Death called him December 10,
1907, and those who were his associates in life mourned his
death, for substantial qualities and commendable characteristics
had endeared him to all who knew him. His life was upright and
honorable, for he closely followed ethical and moral standards.


PATRICK MCKENNA.

The history of Cote des Neiges would be incomplete and
unsatisfactory were there failure to make reference to Patrick
McKenna, who reached the venerable age of ninety-three years--a
respected citizen, whose life, though quietly and uneventfully
passed, was ever a useful and upright one. A native of Ireland,
ambition stirred him to activity with the dawning of young
manhood, and feeling that better opportunities might be
secured in the new world, he left County Cavan and made his way
to Canada where he arrived in 1847. The voyage was made in one
of the old-time sailing vessels which dropped anchor in the
river and there the immigrants, according to the law of the
land, passed into quarantine. Mr. McKenna, anxious to get to
work, chafed under this restraint but when he and his fellow
travelers were liberated he hastened to make his way into the
city where he immediately sought employment. He scorned no labor
that would give him an honest living and so showed that he was
possessed of the spirit of undaunted industry and determination.
In May, 1850, he came to Cote des Neiges, which at that time was
a village somewhat remote from Montreal but now included within
the corporation limits of the city. He accepted the position of
gardener with the late Mr. Donald Ross, but after a year had
passed, became a tenant of that part of the property that borders
the present Westmount Avenue, although it was years afterward
before that thoroughfare was laid out. In 1866 he purchased
from the Greenshields estate a tract of fifty acres to which
he removed in about 1870 and upon it began the erection of a
greenhouse and with the growth of the business in subsequent
years additional hothouse space was added. The original firm
name, P. McKenna & Son, remains unchanged to the present day.

[Illustration: MR. AND MRS. PATRICK McKENNA On the Sixtieth
Anniversary of their Marriage]

On the 1st of October, 1849, Mr. McKenna had married Miss
Mary Kearney, who in the previous year had left her home at
Fanningstown, County Limerick, Ireland, and sailed for the new
world. In the succeeding May Mr. McKenna brought his young
wife to the home which they occupied for twenty years and on
the expiration of that period they took up their abode in the
residence where they lived until death called them. Mr. McKenna
at first gave his attention to market gardening, conducting a
successful business for eighteen years, but gradually withdrew
from that branch of business to give his entire attention to the
florist business, making the raising of fruit and vegetables
merely a side issue.

The McKenna greenhouses became well known and the business
prospered from the beginning, bringing Mr. McKenna a substantial
financial return which enabled him eventually to retire from
active business life.

Mr. and Mrs. McKenna became the parents of thirteen children but
six of the number died in infancy, and Elizabeth died a member
of the Nuns of Jesus and Mary, under the name of Sister St.
Pancratius. Patrick died in 1880 and Mary in 1872. Four children
survive the parents: James, a sketch of whom follows; Miss Sarah
McKenna; Frances N., the wife of F. Allan Beauchamp; and Sister
McKenna, who for seven years was bursar of a nunnery at Lawrence,
Massachusetts, and for the past fifteen years has been bursar of
the noted Grey Nunnery of Montreal.

Mr. and Mrs. McKenna lived to celebrate their diamond wedding
on the sixtieth anniversary of their marriage. The occasion was
made a memorable one to all who participated therein. Both Mr.
and Mrs. McKenna were enjoying good health, although both were
octogenarians, and the celebration was participated in by Mrs.
McKenna’s sister, Miss Sarah Kearney, who witnessed the original
marriage sixty years before. On the occasion of the diamond
wedding the ceremony was marked by the celebration of pontifical
mass by His Lordship Bishop Racicot, assisted by others. From
1851 Mr. McKenna was a continuous holder of a pew in St.
Patrick’s church.

His long residence at Cote des Neiges enabled him to tell much
concerning the history of that section and to relate many
interesting incidents connected with its development and growth.
He had occupied the position of councillor in the village before
its incorporation into a town and about 1889 was succeeded by his
son. He was a justice of the peace for the district of Montreal
for twenty-five years until his death. He possessed a retiring
disposition but nevertheless manifested keen interest in all
that pertained to the city’s welfare and never failed to perform
a public duty that devolved upon him. He was ever loyal to the
land of his adoption and maintained a deep love for the land of
his birth. As a boy he received a temperance medal from Father
Matthew, the Irish apostle of temperance, which is now treasured
by his son.

For over two years after the celebration of the diamond wedding
the parents continued to travel life’s journey and then death
called the husband and father, who passed away March 14, 1912,
at the age of ninety-three years. The wife and mother survived
for only a few months, her death occurring on the 12th of July,
following, at which time she had reached the age of eighty-two
years. They were perhaps the most venerable couple in Cote
des Neiges and among the oldest witnesses of the growth and
development of the tiny village into a city which eventually was
absorbed in the metropolis.


JAMES MCKENNA.

James McKenna, who is his father’s successor in public office
and business, was born at the family home in Cote des Neiges,
November 11, 1851, his parents being Patrick and Mary (Kearney)
McKenna, whose sketch precedes this. When the father retired
from the position of councillor of Cote des Neiges in 1889,
James McKenna succeeded to the position which he continuously
and acceptably filled for nineteen years, while from 1908 until
1910 he was alderman of Montreal. He was appointed justice of the
peace for the district of Montreal to fill the vacancy caused by
the death of his father. He married Margaret Quinn and to them
were born eight children: Rose; Evaline, the wife of Antoine
Marchand by whom she has a son, Charles; Maud, who was known as
Sister St. Margaret of Notre Dame and has passed away; Charles
P., who died at the age of eighteen years; Frank J., who married
Evaline McCarthy; Leo James, who married Gertrude Eagan and has a
son, Leo Martin; Harry W.; and E. Phillip.


ROBERT THOMAS HOPPER.

Ability to recognize opportunities that others passed heedlessly
by, combined with an ambition that brought about their immediate,
practical and resultant utilization, brought Robert Thomas Hopper
to a position in the foremost ranks of Montreal’s manufacturers
and business men. He had the distinction of being the first man
to ship asbestos abroad and later became a prominent figure in
the mining industry in the province, while at the time of his
death he was president of the Dominion Marble Company.

Mr. Hopper was born in Quebec, February 25, 1858, and was
educated there in the public school and in Thom’s Academy. His
father, Thomas Hopper, was senior partner of the firm of Hopper
Brothers, a prominent firm of cattle dealers in the province.
Thomas Hopper married Miss Agnes Davidson and their children
were six in number. Robert Thomas Hopper came to Montreal in
1876, when he was eighteen years of age and secured a position
as bookkeeper with the firm of James Linton, continuing in that
connection for a year. He then organized the firm of Irwin Hopper
& Company, which existed until 1889, when the business was taken
over by R. T. Hopper & Company. This firm engaged in the mineral
business, specializing in crude and fibrized asbestos, being
among the pioneers in that industry in Canada. Mr. Hopper was
regarded as father of the asbestos business in this country.
He was the first Canadian to ship asbestos abroad and has the
distinction of being the first man in the business to take up the
installation of crushing machinery which has since revolutionized
the asbestos business.

About 1891, Mr. Hopper established the first Portland Cement
plant in Canada, known as the English Portland Cement Company
of Canada. Difficulties confronted him, for it fell to his
lot to educate the people to the use of cement. He entered
upon a campaign which ultimately resulted in success, for his
persistency and energy overcame the obstacles placed in his
way. Moreover, time tests the merit of all things and the worth
of Portland cement is demonstrated in its successful use.
Later Mr. Hopper consolidated his interests with the Rathburns
of Deseronto, Ontario, organizing the Beaver Portland Cement
Company, and with the development of the business and the
formation of new associations the Canadian Portland Cement
Company came into existence. Their plants were located at
Marlbank and Deseronto, Ontario, and with the passing of the
years the business developed until it assumed large proportions.
Eventually, Mr. Hopper sold his interests after having materially
assisted in building up a large and successful business. In 1906
he organized the Dominion Marble Company, of which he continued
as president until his death on the 13th of November, 1912. This
business was established on a small scale but was developed
along modern, progressive lines until the company is now one of
the largest in Canada, engaged in the marble business, owning
extensive quarries located at South Stukely, Quebec, and Mr.
Hopper was also a director in the Sherbrooke Railway & Power
Company and remained a director of the Canadian Cement Company
after he withdrew from active connection with the management of
the business. He was a prominent member of the council of the
Canadian Mining Institute and thus kept in close touch with the
mining projects of the country.

In 1882, in Montreal, Mr. Hopper was united in marriage to Miss
Mary Agnes Mathews, a daughter of Richard Mathews, of this city,
and two daughters and a son were born to them.

Mr. Hopper was a member of the Board of Trade and was a
public-spirited citizen, interested in all that pertained to
civic betterment and improvement. He was a member of the Montreal
Amateur Athletic Association, the Montreal Club, the Chapleau
Club, the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club and the Beaconsfield
Golf Club. He attended Douglas Methodist church and was deeply
interested in many local charities. He sought ever the welfare
and development of the community in which he lived along lines of
material, intellectual, moral and public progress and his labors
were attended with far-reaching results and benefits.


JOSEPH FRANCOIS VICTOR MARTINEAU, K. C.

Standing among the foremost men of the legal profession in
Montreal, Joseph François Victor Martineau enjoys an important
and representative practice. Moreover, he holds the position of
general secretary of the bar of the province of Quebec, to which
he was admitted over twenty years ago. Mr. Martineau was born at
Montreal on the 28th of August, 1867, and is a son of the late
François Martineau and Emérentienne (Bouthillier) Martineau.
The father was a well known hardware merchant in this city and
represented for six years, from 1885 to 1891, St. Mary’s ward,
now Papineau, in the city council. In 1892 he was elected as a
conservative member of the legislative assembly of Quebec for
division No. 1 of Montreal (St. Mary’s division) and continued as
a member of parliament until the next general election, in 1897.

[Illustration: J. F. V. MARTINEAU]

Victor Martineau received his classical education at Ottawa
College in Ottawa, St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College of Montreal, and
for three years attended the law department of Laval University,
from which he obtained the degree of LL. B. He was admitted to
the bar of the province of Quebec in July, 1892, and ever since
he has practiced in Montreal, having attained a high position
among his colleagues. He is sound in his logic, terse in argument
and forceful in presenting his pleas and, as he is a deep
student, is familiar with precedent and all the technicalities of
the law. Upon this structure is built his reputation for success.
On the 5th of October, 1910, Mr. Martineau was appointed king’s
counsel by the lieutenant governor and at the nomination of
Hon. M. Arthur Globensky as judge of the superior court of the
province of Quebec he was appointed general secretary of the bar
of the province in August, 1910.

On the 6th of June, 1893, Mr. Martineau was married to Miss
Emmeline Jodoin, a daughter of Isaië A. Jodoin, a well known
advocate of the bar of Montreal. To this union were born two
daughters. Mr. Martineau is a conservative in political matters
and takes the interest of an active and earnest citizen and
voter in public matters although he has never aspired to office.
He can be ever found among those who make for public progress
and readily places his means and ability at the disposal of
undertakings that have this end in view.


JOHN JENNINGS CREELMAN.

The life work of John Jennings Creelman has brought him into
close connection with the general interests of society as
affected by legislative procedure, by activity at the bar and by
educational interests. In the year 1913 he was appointed lecturer
upon railway economics in McGill University and sustains that
relation to the present time. Born in Toronto on the 14th of
February, 1881, he is a son of Adam R. and Margaret Cumming
(Jennings) Creelman. The former was a son of James Creelman,
whose father came from Ireland in childhood and settled in New
Brunswick in 1790. Adam R. Creelman, preparing for the bar, was
created king’s counsel, gained distinction as a member of the
legal profession and in 1900 was made general counsel of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company. He married Margaret Cumming,
daughter of Rev. John Jennings, D. D., the first Presbyterian
clergyman from Scotland to settle in Toronto, which city was then
known as Little York.

Born and reared in Toronto, John J. Creelman attended the public
schools and Upper Canada College where, upon his graduation
in 1900, he won the governor general’s medal. His classical
course was pursued in the University of Toronto, from which he
graduated with the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1904. His legal
training was received in McGill University, where he was created
B. C. L. in 1907. The same year he pursued a special course in
the University of Grenoble, after which he entered upon the
active work of his profession as advocate and solicitor. Not
only did he secure an extensive and important clientele but he
also became an active factor in political circles through his
appointment in 1908 as parliamentary secretary to the chairman of
the committee upon banking and commerce in the Canadian senate.
He is a member of the law firm of Casgrain, Mitchell, McDougall
& Creelman. His invested interests also indicate extensive and
important connection with commercial and industrial activities.
He is now a director of the Canadian British Insulated Company,
Limited; the Chamberlain & Hookham Meter Company, Limited;
the Lancashire Dynamo & Motor Company of Canada, Limited; the
Canadian Union Electric Company, Limited; and Fraser & Chalmers
of Canada, Limited. He is likewise vice president of E. M. Sellon
& Company, Limited. His varied activities have made him a close
and interested student of the signs of the times, with a ready
and accurate understanding of cause and effect in many of the
great vital and significant problems before the country. His
researches and logical deductions in the field of transportation
have made him an authority upon the subject of railway economics
and by reason thereof he was appointed lecturer on that subject
for McGill in 1913. In this connection he has become a member of
the Canadian Institute and of the National Tax Association.

The spirit of progress which has actuated his entire life has
been equally strongly manifest in his military connections. In
1895 he was a member of the Upper Canada College Rifle Company;
in 1899 a trooper in the Governor General’s Bodyguard of Toronto,
of which he became a lieutenant in the following year. In 1905
he was transferred to the Third “Montreal” Field Battery and
in 1909 was commissioned major in command thereof. In 1912 he
became lieutenant colonel in command of the Sixth Brigade,
Canadian Field Artillery, and in 1911 he represented Canada on
the coronation contingent at the coronation of King George V.
From 1911 until 1914 he has been a member of the executive of the
Canadian Artillery Association. In 1913 he passed the militia
staff course. He is upon the council of the Montreal Reform Club
and is a liberal in his political views.

At Galveston, Texas, on the 24th of June, 1908, Mr. Creelman
was united in marriage to Miss Katharine M. Weekes, a daughter
of Nicholas Weekes, a confederate veteran of the Civil war, and
at one time a railroad president and banker of Galveston. Mrs.
Creelman is a graduate of the Bishop Strachan School of Toronto
and by her marriage has become the mother of a son, John Ashmore
Creelman, representative of the family in the fifth generation
in Canada. Mr. and Mrs. Creelman hold membership in St. Paul’s
Presbyterian church of Montreal, and he is a prominent club man,
belonging to the University, Engineers, Royal Montreal Golf,
Thistle Curling and Canadian Clubs of Montreal; the University
and Military Clubs of Toronto; and the Junior Army and Navy Club
of London, England. In addition to a residence in Montreal he has
a country home at Mont Tremblant, where the summer seasons are
spent.


THOMAS PHILLIPS.

Thomas Phillips, remembered as one of the builders of the Rideau
canal and as the holder of extensive property interests in
Montreal, was born in Woodbury, Devonshire, England. He became a
resident of Montreal about 1808 and for a time was engaged in the
brewing business. The years chronicled the growth of his business
both in extent and importance and he had attained a position of
prominence that recommended him for onerous responsibilities when
the Rideau canal project was under way. He became one of the
builders of the canal and in that and in other connections was a
very active man. Early and judicious investments in real estate
made him the owner of much valuable property, including a tract
of land extending from the foot of the mountain to Lagauchetiere
West, including what is now Beaver Hall Hill and Phillips square,
the latter named in honor of the family. Their home, a palatial
residence, was situated on Beaver Hall Hill.

Mr. Phillips married Miss Martha Anderson, a native of New
England, and they became the parents of nine children: George,
Eleanor, Thomas, Alfred, Martha, Mrs. Julia Ashworth, William,
Esther and Mrs. Elizabeth Capel. Of these, only Miss Esther
Phillips is now living. The father died in 1842, while the
mother, long surviving him, passed away in 1881. They were
members of the English Cathedral church and Mr. Phillips
was a most public-spirited man who recognized the needs and
opportunities of his city and sought to compass the former and
utilize the latter. He was numbered among those of the early half
of the nineteenth century who laid the foundation upon which has
been built the present prosperity and greatness of the city.


GEORGE ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, K. C.

George Archibald Campbell, head of the legal firm of Campbell,
McMaster & Papineau, of Montreal, was born in this city,
September 26, 1875, a son of the Rev. Robert Campbell, D. D., an
ex-moderator of the general assembly of the Presbyterian church
in Canada and for more than fifty years one of the foremost
divines of that denomination. His mother was the late Margaret
(Macdonnell) Campbell. Both parents were of Scotch descent and
were members of families prominent in the clerical and legal
professions.

George Archibald Campbell supplemented his course of study in
the Montreal high school by a course in McGill University,
where he was graduated with first rank honors in 1896, upon the
completion of the arts’ course. In preparation for the bar he
then entered the law department and won his B. C. L. degree in
1901. He received the Macdonald traveling scholarship in law and
he supplemented his instruction received at McGill by attending
lectures at the Universities of Paris, Grenoble and Montpelier,
France. He received his practical legal education largely under
the direction of Donald Macmaster, K. C., M. P., and was called
to the bar in July, 1901. Subsequently he became a member of the
firm of Macmaster, Hickson & Campbell and entered upon the active
practice of his profession, in which he has now continued for
thirteen years, his record being marked by an orderly progression
that has brought him to an enviable position as a representative
of the Montreal bar. He is now practicing as the senior partner
in the legal firm of Campbell, McMaster & Papineau. In May, 1912,
he was created a king’s counsel by Lieutenant Governor Langelier.

On the 20th of January, 1909, Mr. Campbell was married in
Montreal to Miss Amy G. Dawson, elder daughter of William V.
Dawson, head of the importing and manufacturing company of W. V.
Dawson, Limited, of Montreal. Their religious faith is evidenced
by their membership in the Presbyterian church. Mr. Campbell’s
political views accord with the principles of the conservative
party, and he is a member of the Liberal-Conservative Club.
Something of the nature of his interests and recreation outside
the strict path of his profession or in the field of citizenship
is shown through his membership in the Montreal, University,
Beaconsfield Golf, Hermitage Country and Canadian Clubs. He is
also a member of the Montreal Art Association. He finds enjoyment
in golf and in motorboating and also takes delight in amateur
farming, all of which constitute an even balance to his intense
professional activity.


WALTER JAMES PRENDERGAST, M. D.

Dr. Walter James Prendergast, a successful practicing physician,
well read and holding ever to high professional standards, was
born in August, 1857, at Cote des Neiges, before it became a part
of Montreal. His father, Walter Prendergast, leaving his native
Ireland, came to Canada in early life and for a number of years
conducted a hotel at Cote des Neiges, but retired many years
prior to his death. His wife, who bore the maiden name of Joanna
Griffith, was a representative of an old family of Sherbrooke,
Quebec.

Dr. Walter J. Prendergast pursued his education at St. Mary’s,
from which he received the degree of B. A., and afterward spent
three years as a student in McGill University, but finished
his professional course at Bishop’s College, from which he was
graduated with the M. D. degree in 1880. He remained throughout
his later career a close student of his profession and thus
his knowledge constantly broadened. Immediately following his
graduation he began practice in Cote des Neiges and after ten
years spent there removed to the city of Montreal, remaining
in practice on St. Denis Street until his death. His widow and
children returned to the old family home on Cote des Neiges road,
where they now reside. Dr. Prendergast was a general practitioner
and was much interested in his profession. In fact, anything
which tended to bring to man the key to the complex mystery which
we call life was of interest to him and he ever read broadly
upon subjects having to do with the safeguarding and restoration
of health. In his professional capacity he did great good and
was very charitable, for he would respond again and again to
the call of the needy even when he knew there was no chance of
remuneration for his services.

In Montreal, in 1892, Dr. Prendergast was united in marriage to
Miss Mary E. Scanlan, a daughter of Michael and Alice (Duggan)
Scanlan. The latter, born in Montreal, was a daughter of Patrick
Duggan, for many years a contractor of this city. For a half
century Mr. Scanlan was connected with the growth of the import
and export trade of this country. When seventeen years of age, or
in 1857, he entered the service of David Torrance & Company and
in 1872, when the Dominion line was established, he became wharf
superintendent, which position he held until his death. During
that period he was tireless in the faithful performance of his
duty and in carrying out the wishes and furthering the interests
of the corporation which he represented. Whether in Montreal, in
Portland, Maine, or in Boston, Massachusetts, or wherever his
duties called him he was the same genial, courteous gentleman,
ever watchful of the interests under his care. He died October
20, 1907, at the age of sixty-seven years.

Dr. and Mrs. Prendergast became the parents of four children who
survive, namely: Aileen, Walter Francis, Harold and Kathleen. Dr.
Prendergast was a man of domestic habits, devoted to the welfare
of his family. He was public-spirited and was interested in all
those things which work for good and progress. In politics he was
a liberal. He was a communicant of St. Agnes Catholic church, and
belonged to the Knights of Columbus.

Dr. Prendergast passed away January 21, 1910. Those who knew
him--and he had an extensive acquaintance--entertained for
him warm regard and many there are who have reason to bless
his memory because of timely aid which he rendered them. His
practice extended among the poor as well as the rich because of
his benevolent nature and it is probable that he derived greater
satisfaction from his ministrations to the former than to the
latter, for his kindly spirit prompted him to reach out in
helpfulness at all times.


EDOUARD BIRON.

Edouard Biron, a prominent representative of the notarial
profession, having been appointed secretary of the board of
notaries for the district of Montreal on the 10th of July, 1912,
was born on the 20th of August, 1877, in the city which is still
his place of residence, his father being Samuel Biron, who was a
wholesale grocer, conducting business at the corner of McGill and
Notre Dame Streets up to the time of his death in December, 1883.
The mother was Dame Philomene Olivier.

[Illustration: EDOUARD BIRON]

Edouard Biron was a student in St. Mary’s College in Montreal
until graduated with the Bachelor of Arts degree in June, 1897.
He next entered Laval University, where he won the LL. D.
degree in June, 1900. He became a notary in July of the same
year, practicing alone until February, 1903, when he formed
a partnership with J. A. Savignac under the name of Biron &
Savignac, an association which was maintained for more than ten
years, or until September, 1913. On the 1st of that month the
present firm of Biron, Savignac, Coderre & Poirier was formed. In
addition to the business of that firm Mr. Biron, as previously
stated, is acting as secretary of the board of notaries for the
district of Montreal, through appointment received in July, 1912.
He stands as a prominent representative of his profession and one
whose ability in this line is unquestioned. As he has prospered
he has made investment in property and is holder of some valuable
Montreal real estate.

On the 1st of September, 1902, Mr. Biron was married to Miss
Blanche Fleury, a daughter of the late A. Fleury, who was a
merchant of Montreal. Mr. and Mrs. Biron are the parents of
four children: Germaine, ten years of age; Roger, eight years;
Marcel, six years; and Suzanne, a little maiden of five summers.
The religious faith of the family is that of the Roman Catholic
church. Mr. Biron is general secretary of L’Association St. Jean
Baptiste de Montreal and he belongs to the St. Denis and Canadian
Clubs and the Club Canadien of Montreal.


EDMUND PHILLIPS HANNAFORD.

Edmund Phillips Hannaford engraved his name high on the roll of
the promoters of railway interests in Canada. To no other single
agency is progress so largely indebted as to railway building and
thus it is that E. P. Hannaford deserves to be numbered among the
public benefactors of his country. Throughout his entire life he
was connected with railway projects and the superb engineering
department of the Grand Trunk system is largely a monument to his
skill, ability and sagacity. A native of Devonshire, England, Mr.
Hannaford was born at Stoke Gabriel, on the 12th of December,
1834, and he was a youth of but seventeen years when he entered
the railway service as draftsman and assistant under Sir I. K.
Brunel. Through the succeeding four years he was a member of
the engineering corps of the South Devon Railway and in 1856
he became identified with the development of railway projects
in Canada. Following his arrival in the new world he became
connected with the Grand Trunk Railway and acted as assistant
engineer of the company from 1857 until 1866. In the latter
year he was appointed chief engineer of the western division
and further promotion awaited him in his appointment in 1869 to
the position of chief engineer of the company. He remained in
that connection for twenty-seven years, resigning from active
work in 1896. He was in charge of the engineering department
during the period of the greatest development of the railway
and managed the construction of all new lines and stations of
the company. His particular talent made him very successful in
drawing up the plans of yards or overcoming any difficulty in the
way of construction. No better proof of his work can be given
than the fact that it is now generally admitted that the Grand
Trunk has one of the best lines of any railway in Canada. The
general offices at Point St. Charles were also erected under his
direction.

In addition to his work in connection with the Grand Trunk
Railway Mr. Hannaford in 1879 was named chief engineer of the
Montreal & Champlain Junction Railway. Ten years before he had
been chief engineer of the International bridge and in 1883 he
became chief engineer of the Jacques Cartier Union and United
States and Canada Railways.

It was in 1859, in Belleville, Ontario, that Mr. Hannaford was
united in marriage to Miss Mary W. Roy, a daughter of Robert
Maitland Roy, of Scotland, who became a resident of Belleville
in 1837. He served in the war of the rebellion in defense of his
country’s interests and long held public office, serving for
a quarter of a century as town clerk. Mr. and Mrs. Hannaford
became the parents of seven children, of whom four survived the
father: Elizabeth, who was Mrs. Harry B. Eastty, of Mount Vernon,
New York, and died August 3, 1913; R. Maitland, assistant chief
engineer of the Montreal Street Railway Company; Edmund P., who
is located at Corpus Christi, Texas; and Miss Mary R. Hannaford,
at home.

Mr. Hannaford belonged to the Church of St. James the Apostle
and his social nature found expression in his membership in the
St. James Club. He was a public-spirited man, deeply interested
in all that pertained to the welfare and upbuilding of Canada,
yet his tastes inclined him to domesticity and in the home
circle he was a most devoted husband and father. He was a man
of fine personal appearance and impressive manner, yet withal
was most genial and affable, and, wherever he went and formed
acquaintanceship, it constituted the beginning of warm and
enduring friendships.

Mr. Hannaford died August 18, 1902.


ROBERT CARLYLE JAMIESON.

Robert Carlyle Jamieson, who stood as a man among men, ready to
meet any obligation of life with the confidence and courage that
come of conscious personal ability, right conception of things
and an habitual regard for what is best in the exercise of human
activities, was born in Glengarry, Ontario, in 1836. He was a
cousin of Thomas Carlyle, philosopher and historian, and a son of
William Jamieson, a gentleman farmer, who married Jean Brodie,
also a native of Scotland, and on coming to Canada settled in
Glengarry.

Their son Robert Carlyle Jamieson pursued his education in the
place of his nativity to the age of sixteen years, when he left
home and taught school at Hawkesbury. In 1856 he came to Montreal
and thereafter to the time of his death, which occurred almost a
half century later, he was a resident of this city. He built up
a large and profitable business through his industry, thrift and
unfaltering honesty. It was in 1858 that he began the manufacture
of varnish on St. Thomas Street, there establishing a plant that
is yet conducted by the firm. In 1882 he purchased the plant of
the Baylis Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of paints and
colors, and later bought the plant of P. D. Dodds & Company at
St. Patrick and Island Streets, where the main office is now
located. Thus the business has steadily grown and developed,
Mr. Jamieson remaining the active head of the firm to the time
of his demise. Year by year the trade has increased until it
today extends all over Canada and a branch office is maintained
in Vancouver, British Columbia. Mr. Jamieson devoted his entire
life to the upbuilding and control of this industry, which is
still conducted by his sons under the style of the R. C. Jamieson
Company, Ltd. It became one of the chief productive industries of
the city and constituted and still remains a source of gratifying
revenue to the stockholders.

In 1863, in Montreal, Mr. Jamieson was married to Miss Harriet
Josephine McGowan, who was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, a daughter
of John H. McGowan, who on leaving his native place, Aberdeen,
Scotland, settled at Cincinnati, Ohio, but during the early ’60s
removed to Montreal. Mr. and Mrs. Jamieson had a family of seven
children, all of whom survive: Harriet A., now Mrs. W. de M.
Marler; Helen L., the wife of A. W. Cochrane; Dr. William Hoves;
Walter Lockhart; Robert Harry; Frederick Carlyle; and Ernest
Temple. The death of the husband and father occurred February 17,
1905.

Mr. Jamieson was a man who occupied an honorable and enviable
position in the regard of his fellows. His life work was
permeated by noble and upright principles and he was untiring
in his efforts to do good. He was one of the original governors
of the House of Industry and Reform and for twenty years he was
treasurer of the Congregational College. He served as deacon
in Emanuel church and was one of the first trustees when the
house of worship was erected in 1875. At one time he served on
the council of the Board of Trade and he was one of the first
members of both the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association and the
Montreal Curling Club. He was solicited to accept many important
offices, both city and provincial, but refused, preferring to
concentrate his energies upon his business interests and duties
and his activities in behalf of his fellow men along the lines of
reform, intellectual progress and moral development.


JOHN KEITH MACDONALD.

Although a native of Scotland, born in Kintyre, John Keith
Macdonald spent almost his entire active life in Montreal, where
he arrived when a youth of sixteen years. He believed that better
business opportunities awaited him on this side of the Atlantic
and he made his initial step as an apprentice at the machinist’s
trade under his uncle, John Boyd. Applying himself closely to the
tasks assigned him, his knowledge and skill developed day by day
until he became an expert workman in that line. Laudable ambition
prompted the development of his latent powers and awakened
in him the desire to engage in business on his own account,
so that eventually he organized the firm of J. K. Macdonald,
general machinists and contractors for iron work. Mr. Macdonald
continually added to his knowledge through experience, reading
and investigation along his chosen line and he continued in the
business until his death, becoming one of the well known and
leading representatives of industrial activity in Montreal.

In Montreal, in 1867, Mr. Macdonald was united in marriage to
Miss Margaret Mackay, a daughter of Norman Mackay, of Glengarry,
where he was born and spent his life. Unto Mr. and Mrs. Macdonald
were born six children, five of whom are living, Mrs. Janette
Macfarlane, Norman, Duncan, George and Margaret. The family
circle was broken by the hand of death when Mr. Macdonald passed
away at the age of sixty-three years. He was a Presbyterian in
religious faith and his life was passed in consistent harmony
with his professions, making him a man whom to know was to
respect and honor.


COLONEL EDWARD ASHWORTH WHITEHEAD.

Colonel Edward Ashworth Whitehead, for many years one of the best
known insurance agents and brokers of Montreal, his native city,
was born April 16, 1845, and was here educated. He was the head
of E. A. Whitehead & Company, insurance agents and brokers, for
many years and thus became widely known in financial circles.
In this connection he helped to build up the great insurance
business conducted under the name of The E. A. Whitehead Company,
Limited.

He had perhaps an even wider acquaintance through his military
connections, for his military career was long, distinguished and
honorable. He was one of the oldest officers in the volunteer
military service in the Dominion and as original member of the
Victoria Rifles he rose from the ranks to the command of the
regiment and was placed on the list of reserve officers in 1876.
He was on active duty during the Fenian raids from 1866 until
1870, was present at Eccles Hill and for his service received
a general service medal with two clasps, while his active duty
at the time of the Northwest rebellion in 1885 also won him a
medal. He was chief transport officer under Colonel Middleton and
held a long service decoration and he was a member of the Royal
Commission on Canadian War Claims in 1885-6.

Colonel Whitehead was a veteran amateur athlete, was one of the
founders of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association and its
first honorary president. In 1908 he was a member of the Canadian
Olympic Games Committee and he was also a director of the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. In Club circles he was
long popular and prominent, holding membership in the Mount Royal
Club; the St. James Club, of which he served as chairman; the
Royal Montreal Golf Club; Forest and Stream Club; Montreal Hunt
Club; Montreal Jockey Club; Montreal Curling Club; Montreal Polo
Club; St. George Snow Shoe Club; the Isleway Club; the Military
Institute; and the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club.

The end came to Colonel Whitehead September 7, 1912. He seemed
almost to the last in the prime of life, his fine figure being
erect and soldierly, and the years rested lightly upon him. His
eye could still sweep down the long lines of the regiment, his
step was elastic and he was enjoying life in all the mental
riches that follow a career of activity and usefulness. The
Victoria Rifles felt great pride in his brilliant record and in
that regiment he was an outstanding figure, a symbol of duty
well done, while his memory will ever be to them an inspiration
for loyalty in the King’s service. In January, 1912, he was
the leading figure at the dinner given by the regiment to
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its organization. He had
been one of the first to spring to the colors when the corps was
organized and had carried those colors in many fields. Even as
in his youth, ready to fight for his flag, Colonel Whitehead was
as willing to go to its defense in later years, when it might
have been supposed that the fire of youth had died down. Years
rolled onward, changes came and brought with them the boy scout
movement. This appealed strongly to his military spirit and he
entered heartily into the work of supporting and furthering the
cause. Money was needed; he supplied it. He also raised the money
for the trip to Europe a few years ago. He had always loved boys,
the military had always been dear to him and in the boy scout
movement these two were combined.

[Illustration: Col. Whitehead]

Colonel Whitehead was a man to whom a worthy appeal was never
made in vain. His heart took in a great circle of friends and his
purse was open to all calls of charity.

In the field of sport he was well to the front. In early manhood
he was an excellent lacrosse player and old timers remember the
games in which he participated against the Shamrocks for the
Claxton flags in the early ’60s. He was also a splendid sprinter,
making a notable record in the hundred-yard dash. This love of
sport he retained to the last and he was a life member of the
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association, of which he at one time
served as president.

Trouble did not pass him by, but through all he was the same
kindly, upright gentleman, maintaining a high sense of duty and
honor. In 1899 death robbed him of his wife, Mrs. Elizabeth
Whitehead, daughter of William Newcomb, whom he had married in
1868; and his son, E. A. Whitehead, Jr., died in 1908.

Edward Ashworth Whitehead, Jr., son of Colonel Edward Ashworth
Whitehead, was born in Montreal in 1869 and acquired his
education in England and in Kingston, Ontario, where he was
graduated with honors at the Royal Military College. He was
connected with The E. A. Whitehead Company, Limited, and for many
years was a special agent for Montreal of the Phoenix Assurance
Company, Limited, of London and was as popular in business as he
was in social circles.

Mr. Whitehead, Jr., married Miss May Sicotte, a daughter of
Victor Benjamin Sicotte, district magistrate at St. Hyacinthe and
a granddaughter of Hon. Louis Sicotte, premier of Canada. Three
children were born to them: Edward Ashworth, who is the third of
the name to continue the business of The E. A. Whitehead Company,
Limited; George Victor, a student at Bishop’s College School; and
Margaret Whitehead.


ROBERT LINTON.

Robert Linton became well known in the business circles of
Montreal in connection with the manufacture of woolen goods. He
was regarded as a resourceful business man whose enterprise,
progress and laudable ambition were constantly manifest in
the success which he won. A native of Ireland, he was born in
Newtown-Limavady in 1834, a son of Samuel and Martha Linton, who
brought their family to the new world during the boyhood of their
son, Robert. Settling in Montreal, their remaining days were
passed in this city but both have long since departed this life.

Robert Linton acquired his education in the schools of Montreal
and received his business training with the firm of William
Stephen & Company. Of that firm Lord Mount Stephen was a partner
and eventually took over the business upon the death of the
senior member of the firm. Continuing in active connection with
the business Robert Linton grew in usefulness and capability, as
he thoroughly acquainted himself with the duties that devolved
upon him. After the death of William Stephen the business was
conducted by George Stephen & Company for some time and Mr.
Linton was admitted to partnership in 1857. Upon the retirement
of George Stephen, later Lord Mount Stephen, the business of the
firm of George Stephen & Company was combined with that of Andrew
Robertson under the firm style of Robertson, Linton & Company,
this connection continuing until 1898, when the business was
closed out.

Mr. Linton was married twice. At Three Rivers, Quebec, he
wedded Miss Margaret McDougall, and they became the parents of
six children, as follows: Robert M., deceased; Margaret M.,
who is Mrs. Denaston Breakey, of Breakeyville, Quebec; Ernest,
a resident of Ottawa; Agnes H, who is Mrs. F. N. Southam, of
Montreal; Percy L., deceased; and Alice L., who married Herbert
Carter, of Montreal. The second marriage of Robert Linton was
also celebrated at Three Rivers, Miss Margaret Paterson, daughter
of John Paterson, becoming his wife on the 20th of October, 1886.

Mr. Linton was ever actively interested in those projects and
measures bearing upon the progress, upbuilding and development
of the city as well as upon his business affairs. He was widely
recognized as an honorable and upright man, in whose life there
were no esoteric phases. He was a member of the Montreal Board of
Trade, a life governor of the Montreal General Hospital, and a
justice of the peace for a few years before his death. He passed
away in November, 1899, after having gained for himself a most
creditable position in business circles and in the regard of his
fellowmen.


ARTHUR O’CONNELL KAVANAGH.

A history of the insurance business in Montreal would be
incomplete without mention of Arthur O. Kavanagh, who for many
years figured prominently in connection therewith. He was one of
the city’s native sons, born April 12, 1860, and in its schools
pursued his education, while in the school of experience he also
learned many valuable and practical lessons, thus constantly
adding to his knowledge and ability. The family name indicates
his Irish lineage and he manifested the sterling characteristics
of the race. He was engaged in business with his brother, Walter
Kavanagh, and they became prominent figures in insurance circles,
representing the Scottish Union & National Insurance Company,
the German-American Insurance Company and the Rochester German
Insurance Company, of which they were chief agents. Arthur
Kavanagh familiarized himself with every phase of the business
and had gained a most creditable position as an alert progressive
man and one ready to meet any emergency in business, when death
called him on the 14th of September, 1896, when he was yet in the
prime of life.

He had been married in Montreal less than five years before,
having on the 7th of October, 1891, wedded Alice Mullin, a native
of this city and a daughter of Patrick Mullin, of whom mention is
made elsewhere in this publication. They became the parents of
three sons: Harold Henry; Arthur Patrick, who died at the age of
six years; and Walter John. Deep regret was felt at the passing
of Mr. Kavanagh, because of his comparatively early age and
because he had gained a firm hold upon the affectionate regard of
his business associates and his many friends.


PATRICK MULLIN.

Patrick Mullin had traveled life’s journey for more than four
score years when he was called from this life on the 14th of
August, 1913. He was a native of Tyrone, Ireland, and for
more than six decades was a resident of Montreal, arriving in
this city in 1850. He was associated with various business
enterprises. With his brother, James E. Mullin, he became
associated with another brother, John Mullin, who had, in 1845,
established a wholesale grocery business, which they conducted
on College Street, now St. Paul Street. There they built up
a very extensive and successful enterprise, their patronage
constantly growing, as their trade interests extended over a
wide territory. In the early years of the business there were
practically no railroads in this section of the continent, while
means of water transportation were but slightly developed. They
hauled much of their stock with teams and, notwithstanding the
difficulties involved, they were enterprising enough to compete
for business as far west as Toronto. Their merchandise was taken
from Montreal to that city by team, the journey requiring two
weeks. John Mullin died in 1853, after which the business was
conducted by James E. and Patrick Mullin, under the firm name
of J. E. Mullin & Company. Both brothers had great faith in the
ultimate growth and prosperity of the city and because of this
they made large investments in real estate, gradually acquiring
the ownership of the block upon which they conducted their
business, extending from the rear of the Grand Trunk offices to
the Haymarket. Patrick Mullin also invested in other real estate
until his holdings were extensive and important. The large block
which the brothers acquired on St. Paul and William Streets later
became the location of the present plant of the Canada Cold
Storage Company and Mr. Mullin became a pioneer in that line of
business in the city. He was a man of indefatigable energy and
strong purpose and as the years passed on he carried forward to
successful completion whatever he undertook.

Mr. Mullin was united in marriage, in Montreal, to Alice O’Neil,
a native of County Tyrone, Ireland. She died on November 29,
1903, the mother of seven children, as follows: Mary A., the
wife of Joseph A. Cloran, of Boston, Massachusetts; Margaret J.;
Alice, the widow of Arthur O. Kavanagh; John F., who died in
March, 1904, aged twenty-nine years; Patrick; Elizabeth M., who
is Mrs. Harry J. Trihey; and Emma M., wife of William J. Hart.

A long and useful life was Mr. Mullin’s. He was a man of quiet
habits, but greatly enjoyed a good game of forty-five. In manner
he was always courteous, kindly, and considerate to others.
In religious faith he was a Catholic and devoted much time to
increasing the usefulness of St. Bridget’s Home and of St.
Patrick’s Asylum, being a trustee of the latter institution. He
gave liberally to the church and did everything in his power to
promote its influence.


ROSAIRE DUPUIS.

Rosaire Dupuis, one of the rising young notaries of Montreal, is
a son of Louis Napoleon Dupuis and Melanie Panet Levesque. The
father is ex-controller of Montreal and one of the founders of
the well known mercantile house of Dupuis Freres, Limited. The
mother of Rosaire Dupuis is a daughter of the late Pierre Thomas
Levesque and comes from a family that has for generations been
prominent in the judicial and legislative history of the province
and Dominion. Mr. Dupuis was born in the parish of La Longue
Pointe on the 17th of October, 1888. He made his classical course
at L’Assomption College, from which he was graduated in 1908 with
the degree of Bachelor of Science. He then took up the study
of law in Laval University in 1908 and won his LL. L. degree
upon graduation with the class of June, 1911. During the summer
seasons of 1909 and 1910 he attended the famous Eastman Business
College at Poughkeepsie, New York, where he was graduated with
honors on the 30th of August, 1910. During the succeeding year
he traveled abroad, visiting the Holy Land and many European
countries.

[Illustration: ROSAIRE DUPUIS]

In January, 1912, Mr. Dupuis began practice and has met with
gratifying success in following his profession, in which he
is well versed. He is a conservative in politics and a Roman
Catholic in religious belief. He holds membership with the
Canadian Club, the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association and
the Knights of Columbus, and for the past two years has been
secretary of the Anti-Alcoholic League. During the years 1909
and 1910 at Laval he was secretary of the Laval Students-at-Law.
He is a young man of promise as well as a credit to one of
Montreal’s best families.


DONALD ALEXANDER SMITH.

Donald Alexander Smith, Lord Strathcona and Mount Royal, whose
career has been so wonderful as to appear almost magical, was
born on August 6, 1820, in the ancient town of Forres, in
Morayshire, Scotland. His father, Alexander Smith, was a small
tradesman of Archieston and was born in the parish of Knocando.
He married Barbara Stuart, of Leanchoil, Abernethy, a capable,
thrifty woman, ambitious for her children. It was her desire that
her son Donald should prepare for the bar, but, though he did not
see fit to follow this wish, the mother heart never lost faith
in her son and it was said that after he came to Canada as a fur
trader she was frequently heard to remark: “They’ll all be
proud of my Donald yet.” It was said that in boyhood he was shy,
yet amiable, and displayed sturdy resolution and even hardihood
if circumstances called those qualities forth. After leaving
school he took up the study of law, his reading being directed
by Robert Watson, solicitor, for two or three years. At length,
however, he determined to enter the service of the Hudson’s Bay
Company, influenced somewhat by a previous suggestion made by
John Stuart, his uncle, who was then visiting Scotland. In 1838
he sailed for the new world and after a voyage of between forty
and fifty days upon an eight hundred ton vessel, one of the
largest on the seas at that time, he landed on Canadian shores.
The rebellion of Mackenzie and Papineau had just been suppressed.
Donald A. Smith at once entered the service of the Hudson’s Bay
Company, but in a minor position. He met various hardships, but
he proved his fidelity to the company as well as his capability
in performing every service intrusted to him. He was first sent
to the Labrador coast, where he spent thirteen years in a cold,
bleak, barren, desolate region, with no companionship save a few
employes, but during that period he learned the business methods
of the company, how to manage Indians and how to secure the best
returns. It has been said that power grows through the exercise
of effort and year by year Donald Smith became more powerful.
The hardships which he was forced to endure developed him. There
is probably no other country in the world where there exists
a longer or more dangerous postal route for men and dogs--two
thousand miles of land travel from Quebec to Ungava in the depth
of an Arctic winter, continuing from December until June--yet
Lord Strathcona covered that route not once but many times.

His apprenticeship was, indeed, a difficult one, but he was
undeterred by all obstacles he encountered and privations which
he endured. At length, however, his eyesight became impaired,
making it necessary that he go to Montreal for treatment. He
covered the journey from Labrador by dog sled and on his arrival
in Montreal he was greeted by Sir George Simpson, governor of
the company, with the remark: “Well, young man, why are you not
at your post?” “My eyes, sir,” came the reply, and he pointed
to his blue goggles; “they got so very bad I have come to see a
doctor.” But the governor thundered: “And who gave you permission
to leave your post?” It would have taken a full year to obtain
official consent, but when Mr. Smith was forced to reply, “No
one,” the governor answered: “If it is a question between your
eyes and your service in the Hudson’s Bay Company you will take
my advice and return this instant to your post,” and Mr. Smith
started almost immediately upon that return journey of nearly
a thousand miles. The weather became so bad that both of his
Indians succumbed to the cold and he arrived at the post more
dead than alive. He once remarked: “A man who has been frozen
and roasted by turns every year must be the tougher for it if he
survived it at all.” Donald A. Smith did survive and advanced
steadily. He learned the dialect of a number of Indian tribes
and he so managed business affairs that his services were ever
a matter of profit to the company. His advancement was slow at
first, but his worth was eventually recognized and promotion
came quicker. His duties were many and onerous because of his
remoteness from civilization. He was called upon to minister to
the sick and half a century later, when speaking to the students
of the Middlesex Hospital in London he described the antiseptic
which he used in Labrador in the ’40s, saying: “It was a
primitive and somewhat rude form of treatment that was practiced
in those days before Lord Lister introduced his discovery. For
the treatment of wounds, ulcerated sores, etc., a pulp was made
by boiling the inner bark of the juniper tree. The liquor which
resulted was used for washing and treating the wounds and the
bark, beaten into a plastic mass, was applied after the thorough
cleaning of the wound, forming a soft cushion, lending itself to
every inequality of the sore. Scrupulous cleanliness was observed
and fresh material used for every application.”

When in Labrador, at the age of twenty-nine years, Donald A.
Smith married Isabella Sophia Hardisty, with whom he traveled
life’s journey for sixty-five years, separated in her death,
which occurred in London in 1913. In the meantime he was
advancing from one post to another in the service of the Hudson’s
Bay Company, becoming trader and then chief trader, while his
splendid administrative ability won him further promotion to
factor and to chief factor. In 1851 he was transferred to the
Northwest provinces and became most active in their later
development. He eventually reached the position of supreme head
of the company, becoming the last resident governor of the
corporation that had its beginning under the Merry Monarch. The
year 1868 witnessed his arrival in Montreal, as chief executive
for the Hudson’s Bay Company. He is described at that time as
“a man of middle stature, rather slight in build, and looked
not at all the typical northerner, except when one studied his
countenance.” “The snow tan of the north had made him dark as
an Indian. He wore a full beard, black and wiry. Black brows
met above his eyes, enhancing the stern, uncompromising aspect
of his face. He looked what he was--a commander of men and of
forces, a man made strong by a life of struggle and conquest in
the wilderness.” He had not yet become a wealthy man, although
he had saved his money and had invested it in land at various
points in the northwest--land that many would have regarded as
valueless. With wonderful prescience he discerned something of
what the future had in store for that great country and with the
growth of its population and the onrushing tide of civilization
his holdings increased in value, making him one of Canada’s more
prosperous citizens.

While Donald A. Smith had reached the pinnacle of service
in connection with the Hudson’s Bay Company when he came to
Montreal, he was destined to gain equal eminence in other
directions. In the interests of the Canadian Confederation it was
seen that the title to the territory of the Hudson’s Bay Company
in Rupert’s Land must pass to the crown and a purchase was
arranged whereby the company received a million dollars and large
reserves of land, although the transfer was not made without
great difficulty and danger, culminating in what has been known
as the Red River rebellion, or the first Riel rebellion.

Discontented people of that region had been trying to produce
an agitation that would separate their settlement from that of
the Hudson’s Bay Company. The rapid growth of population in
Assiniboia was imperilling the company’s hold and its rule,
hitherto wise and practical, was denounced as arbitrary. A
contemporary biographer has written:

“Better representation was demanded and, by dint of much uproar
and noise, considerable sympathy was obtained from outside. To
understand fully the character of this Red River settlement it
must be explained that the population was considerably mixed.
In all there were about twelve thousand souls. There were
Europeans, Canadians, Americans and French half-breeds. With a
mixed population like this it was difficult to deal and when,
on November 9, 1869, the deed was signed in London, whereby the
company surrendered its interests in the northwest to the crown,
with reservations for the company, rebellion broke out. The
leader was the famous Louis Riel, a Metis, described as ‘a short,
stout man, with a large head, a square cut, massive forehead
overhung by a mass of long and thickly clustering hair and marked
with well cut eyebrows--altogether a remarkable looking face.’

“The Hon. William McDougall had been appointed lieutenant
governor of Rupert’s Land and the Northwest territories in
September, 1869, but when he went, by way of the United States,
to possess himself of his power he was turned back on the borders
of his domain by Louis Riel and his followers, the Metis of the
plains, who absolutely refused to recognize his authority on the
ground that they had not been consulted in the new arrangement.
Mr. McDougall found himself unable to cope with the situation and
was compelled to remain at a farm house several miles south of
the boundary line for six weeks.

“Meanwhile the armed resistance to authority had attained serious
proportions. Riel seized Fort Garry, made the editor of the local
paper prisoner and was issuing proclamations to the inhabitants.
So matters went on until sixty of Riel’s enemies were confined in
Fort Garry and the insurgents’ flag hoisted.

“Meanwhile in his office in Montreal Donald A. Smith was slowly
but surely studying the position. Understanding the character
of both McDougall and Riel, he saw how hopeless the situation
was. Understanding them better than they understood themselves,
he realized that what was needed was a man who knew the inner
mind of the company well and could clear its character of the
imputations cast upon it. He was the man--he felt it and although
the journey involved grave personal risk he resolved to go. The
government promptly accepted his services and he was appointed
special commissioner to proceed at once to Fort Garry.

“With characteristic courage he went unarmed and almost alone.
No sooner had he arrived at Fort Garry than he was treated as
a prisoner of ‘President’ Riel. That, however, did not check
his determination. He had made up his mind to avoid bloodshed
and yet to enforce the decision of the government. To quote
his own words: ‘The part I had to act was that of a mediator.
Not only would one rash or unguarded word have increased the
difficulty but even the pointing of a finger might, on more than
one occasion, have been sufficient to put the whole country in a
flame.’ But the unguarded word was never spoken, the finger was
never pointed in a wrong direction and the rebellion ended in
a bloodless expedition. Yet before Sir Garnet Wolseley marched
to the Red river many a heated discussion was held and probably
never before in history has a regularly ordained meeting been
held in British territory under such conditions. If the moral
atmosphere was warmly excited, the physical atmosphere was
depressed enough to chill the fiercest rebels.

“The first meeting was a memorable one. In the open air, with
the thermometer twenty degrees below zero, a cruel, biting wind
penetrating through the warmest clothing, there they stood, men
of all nationalities and ages. On the small, raised platform
were the four most concerned in the rebellion--Riel, O’Donoghue,
De Salaberry (a man beloved by thousands) and Donald A. Smith.
At first the meeting was wholly with Riel, who cleverly got
himself appointed French interpreter. But when things were at
their worst and men of the opposite sides glared at each other
with hate in their eyes, Mr. Smith rose to speak. His facts, his
practical wisdom and, above all, his reasonableness had their
effect upon the swaying multitude. If he did not gain much that
day, at any rate he averted bloodshed.

“In the open air, with the thermometer twenty degrees below zero,
in the teeth of a biting blast, this meeting was conducted with a
respect for decorum and ancient parliamentary methods worthy of
Westminster itself.

“The next day things went better. The proposition that
representatives should be chosen from both sides was accepted,
and when Riel agreed to disband the men at Fort Garry all classes
felt that the worst was over. However, matters were not so easily
arranged. Riel broke his word and the murder of a young man named
Scott complicated the situation. Nevertheless, the excitement
slowly cooled and there is little doubt that but for the tactful
courage of Mr. Smith a spark would have been put to the flame of
rebellion.

“‘I am as certain as I can be of anything,’ said Dr. O’Donnell,
one of the old timers of Winnipeg, who was at Fort Garry in 1869,
‘that Donald A. Smith saved the northwest of Canada. On December
10, 1869, he was appointed a special commissioner to explain to
the people of the Red River settlement the principles on which
the government of Canada intended to govern the country and to
take such steps as he might consider necessary to bring about a
peaceable transfer from the Hudson’s Bay Company to the Dominion.
At that time everything was in confusion; Mr. McDougall had been
refused admission, Riel was king, an American element was trying
to bring about the annexation of the settlement to the United
States and last but not least the Indians were disaffected. When
he reached Fort Garry Mr. Smith was virtually made a prisoner,
Riel would not allow him to go outside the fort and kept an eye
on his correspondence. In January, 1870, a mass meeting was held
at Fort Garry and Mr. Smith was allowed to state his case and
tell what he wanted the people to do. Riel was present, together
with O’Donoghue and other insurrectionaries. It was a critical
moment, I assure you; in fact, when Mr. Smith got up to read his
commission from Sir John Young most of those present expected to
see him arrested or shot on the spot. As it was he had a stormy
time, but managed to impress many of the hot-headed with the
belief that the interests of the settlement would be properly
safeguarded by Canada. Riel was afraid of Mr. Smith’s influence
and at once hurried on preparations for having himself made
president of a provisional government. Then came the wholesale
arrests culminating in the murder of Thomas Scott. Mr. Smith
risked his life in an attempt to save Scott. Notwithstanding
Riel’s antipathy to him, he went boldly to Riel and pleaded for
Scott, even going so far as to warn Riel that if Scott was shot
his blood would be upon his head. Riel was intoxicated with power
and more than half disposed to shoot others on the loyal side,
but Mr. Smith told him to his teeth that such a crime would not
go unpunished.

“‘In the discussions that took place over the Bill of Rights to
be sent to Ottawa, the chief part was borne by Mr. Smith. His
coolness and sagacity undoubtedly prevented the collapse of the
negotiations. “This man Smith,” said O’Donoghue at one stage,
“knows too much for us, he is too able for us. We must get rid
of him or the northwest cannot be made either an independent
republic or part of the United States. He is a Hudson’s Bay
Company officer and as such a friend of the half-breeds, and
will be able to persuade them that union with Canada is to their
interest.” It was a wonder all along that Mr. Smith was not
shot. He was warned often enough that his life was in danger,
but seemed quite willing to risk it in behalf of the cause he
represented. A good many English-speaking settlers, while loyal
enough, did not at first care to belong to Canada; they thought
Rupert’s Land would be better off as a crown colony than as
a Canadian province and Mr. Smith had to convince them that
they were mistaken. In reality, therefore, he was between two
fires--the Riel or disaffected party and the loyalists who did
not favor the idea of confederation--whilst, as I have said,
there was an American element working for annexation.

“‘At a later period when Governor Archibald came in (September
2, 1870), Mr. Smith rendered services to Canada of the highest
moment. The Governor did not receive a very cordial reception,
but Mr. Smith, who accompanied him, set about the work of
conciliating the French, the old time English-speaking settlers
and the new or Canadian settlers, who constituted three distinct
factions. Mr. Archibald frequently told me that but for Mr. Smith
the little community would have been torn to pieces by intestine
strife. He was the one man who brought the northwest into Canada,
who, indeed, saved it to the British empire, and we think he
should get credit, even at this late day, for so great a work.’

“Many are the anecdotes concerning Mr. Smith’s dangerous mission
to Fort Garry during the first Riel rebellion and of the
commencement of his political career in the far west.”

With Sir Garnet Wolseley were Captain Buller, afterward General
Sir Redvers, and Lieutenant Butler, afterward General Sir
William. The tyranny of Riel had become irksome to the people,
who received the newcomers joyously, and at the approach of the
“red coats” Riel, with his co-conspirators, fled, taking up his
position on the shores of St. Boniface. All was now quiet in
the settlement, the purchase price of one million, five hundred
thousand dollars had been paid and the territory transferred to
Canada.

Donald A. Smith was by this time recognized as the most powerful
man in the west. The governor general thanked him for his
services and in 1870, after the organization of the province of
Manitoba, he was returned to the legislature for Winnipeg and St.
John. He was also called to the Northwest territorial council and
was returned for Selkirk to the house of commons. He supported
the conservative government then under direction of Sir John A.
Macdonald and the party soon found that in him there was another
man fit for leadership. It was found that the builders of the
railway from ocean to ocean had trafficked with contractors and
taken money for election purposes. This became known as the
Pacific Scandal and the intense feeling manifest throughout the
country centered in the house of commons. The house divided upon
a motion of the Hon. Alexander Mackenzie, the leader of the
liberal opposition to Sir John Macdonald. Feeling was intense.
At one o’clock in the morning of November 5, 1873, Mr. Smith
arose and uttered what became an oracular speech, for the people
he represented were vitally interested in the building of the
railway so necessary to the development of their country. It is
said the house became deadly calm; no one knew whether he would
adhere to his party’s policies or otherwise. He said: “For the
honor of the country no government should exist that has a shadow
of suspicion resting upon it, and for that reason I cannot give
it my support.” These were his closing words, greeted by frantic
cheers by the opposition, and the government was doomed. Feeling
ran high and was most intense and bitter, but in later years the
two leaders, the great statesman and the great financier, built
together the Canadian Pacific Railway. Both were master builders
and the executive capacity of the financier was necessary to the
constructive genius of the statesman. It was in no idle spirit of
laudation that Sir Charles Tupper stated that “had it not been
for Mr. Smith’s indomitable pluck, energy and determination the
road would never have been constructed.”

Mr. Smith thoroughly understood the fact that colonization could
not be carried forward in the west without the building of the
railroad. Another has written concerning this:

“It must have been with profound reluctance that he voted for
the overthrow of the Macdonald government. He knew that the
fall of that administration would set back the construction of
the Pacific Railway and of the necessity of that great work to
the unity and stability of the confederation he was thoroughly
convinced. He was not well satisfied with the slower and less
heroic policy of Mackenzie, although it is said he believed the
road should be built by the government and ‘not by any company,
however honorable or competent.’ He said in 1876, ‘Nothing short
of a guarantee from the government of interest on the whole
amount of the bonds could induce capitalists to embark on the
enterprise.’ He, therefore, well understood the magnitude of the
contract into which the syndicate entered in 1880 and the peril
to his fortune and reputation involved in the assumption of that
gigantic undertaking.

“There is no doubt that the syndicate received great subventions,
but Mr. Smith and his courageous associates undertook to build
a railway through thousands of miles of unknown and uninhabited
country, along the sterile shores of Lake Superior and across the
Rocky mountains. They had to go out in advance of settlement.
They had to lead the march of civilization across leagues of
unsettled prairie. They had to seek a silent port on the Pacific.
It was a more daring idea than the Cape to Cairo Railway, which
united two great centers of world activity. The Canadian Pacific
was a plunge through nothing to nothing. It was a stupendous
guess at the future. As we look back we recognize that few human
achievements rank higher than the construction of the Canadian
Pacific Railway across this enormous stretch of territory, its
operation during the first ten years of its history and the
maintenance of its credit in face of persistent attack, slow
growth of population and unpromising national outlook. The
whisper goes that when the great enterprise hung on the verge
of collapse, Mr. Smith pledged his private fortune to the last
dollar in support of its credit, as he held his associates to the
scrupulous performance of every detail of their contract with the
country.”

One of the initial steps of the work was the purchase of the
bankrupt St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Railway, which,
extending over Minnesota and Dakota had a branch line to Pembina,
Manitoba. Built by Dutch capitalists, it became bankrupt in 1873,
yet Messrs. Smith and Hill recognized that with the return of
prosperity this would become a profitable undertaking. These two,
together with George Stephen, later Lord Mount Stephen, and N. W.
Kittson purchased the road.

Sir John Macdonald returned to power in 1878, but he could not
secure the cooperation of London financiers in the building of
the railroad. When it was seen that it was impossible to carry
the project through as a government railroad, in 1880 the four
men who had made the old Minnesota railroad a paying investment,
undertook the other task. A syndicate was formed, known as the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, ultimately capitalized at
seventy-five million dollars, with twenty-five million dollars of
land grant bonds, and this company built the railroad from the
Atlantic to the Pacific. The task accomplished was a gigantic
one. The movement had the support of the conservative government,
but was bitterly assailed by the opposition, both in the house
and through the press. Again and again the word went out through
the papers and through party utterances that the railroad could
never be made a paying investment. It was almost impossible to
get investors to buy stock. At times the treasury seemed utterly
exhausted. It is said that one day Donald A. Smith came late to
a directors’ meeting. He looked into the faces of his colleagues
and said: “Nobody has any money; let’s adjourn until tomorrow.”
The following day he smilingly entered the room. “Has anybody
raised any money?” he asked. Everyone replied: “Not a cent.” “I
have raised another million,” announced Mr. Smith, “and that
will last us until somebody gets more money.” Never for a moment
did he lose faith in the ultimate triumph of the venture. He
inspired others with much of his own contagious enthusiasm. Again
and again when his associates seemed utterly discouraged he
inspired them with hope and when he was in Great Britain and the
directors wrote him a long letter indicating their utter despair
he cabled back one word “Craigellachie,” recalling at once the
old Highland clan cry “Stand Fast, Craigellachie,” and once more
inspired by their chieftain the men did stand fast and on the 7th
of November, 1885, at Craigellachie, British Columbia, Donald A.
Smith, then a white haired man, drove a golden spike into the
cedar tie upon which the rails met from east to west. The weight
of the Herculean task which he had accomplished between 1880 and
1885 had changed the strong, black bearded, sturdy man to a white
haired veteran. Before night came on the Marquis of Lansdowne,
governor general of Canada, had received a telegram from Queen
Victoria congratulating the Canadian people on an event “of
greatest importance to the whole British empire.” Speaking of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Sir Charles Tupper said:

“The Canadian Pacific Railway would have no existence today,
notwithstanding all the government did to support that
undertaking, had it not been for the indomitable pluck and energy
and determination, both financially and in every other respect,
of Sir Donald Smith.” Mr. James J. Hill, president of the Great
Northern Railway of the United States, also said that “the one
person to whose efforts and to whose confidence in the growth of
our country, our success in early railway development is due is
Sir Donald A. Smith.”

The splendid work done by Mr. Smith won him imperial honors. He
was created a knight commander of the Most Distinguished Order
of St. Michael and St. George by Queen Victoria in 1886 and a
decade later received a knight grand cross in the same order,
being privately invested by Her Majesty at Windsor Castle. At
the time of the Diamond Jubilee in 1897 Queen Victoria bestowed
a further mark of royal favor upon Mr. Smith by elevating him to
the peerage of the united kingdom as Baron Strathcona and Mount
Royal of Glencoe, in the county of Argyll, and of Montreal, in
the province of Quebec and Dominion of Canada. In 1908 he was
appointed a knight of the grand cross of the Royal Victorian
Order and was also elected a fellow of the Royal Society,
while in 1910 he became a knight of grace of the Order of the
Hospitallers of St. John of Jerusalem.

In the meantime he had become identified with so many financial
interests that it would be impossible to enumerate them. He also
remained active in politics, unyielding as ever in all matters
where subserviency was demanded by party exigencies. It has been
said:

“He was not a legislator; he was not a statesman; he never wanted
office; and he seldom spoke. He was forced into the house by his
commanding personality and he sat there representing the silent
power of the empire builder. But it is not to be supposed that
he was not a working member. Probably few men did more valuable
parliamentary work, while he remained a member of the house.”

In 1874 Mr. Smith resigned his seat in the Manitoba legislature,
but remained a representative of the province at Ottawa, sitting
for Selkirk until 1880. In 1887, at the general election, he was
returned to the house of commons as member for Montreal West,
now St. Antoine division, by a majority of fourteen hundred and
fifty, and was reelected in 1891 by a majority of thirty-seven
hundred and six, remaining the representative for Montreal
West until 1896. In 1892 he was an active participant in the
commercial congress held in London and in March, 1896, he served
as a delegate to the Manitoba government to aid in deciding the
Manitoba school question, his colleagues being Messrs. Dickey
and Desjardins. In April of the same year he was sworn of the
queen’s privy council of Canada, and he was commissioner to the
Pacific cable conference held in London in 1896, in which year he
once more attended the commercial congress. During the existence
of the Imperial Federation League he was vice president of that
organization for Quebec. In April, 1896, ere the conservative
administration went out of power, he was appointed Canadian high
commissioner in Great Britain, succeeding Sir Charles Tupper,
who had filled the office since its creation in 1884. The high
commissionership combines all the functions of an ambassador and
financial agent but has no diplomatic standing. The appointment
as high commissioner is a political one, but when Sir Wilfrid
Laurier came into power Lord Strathcona still retained the
position as if there had been no change in government. When the
conservatives returned to power in 1911 he remained in London,
with the approval of all Canada. When the expenses of the high
commissioner’s office in London were being discussed in the
Dominion house of commons the late Sir Richard Cartwright said:

“I believe that Canada has in very important respects been
extremely well served by Lord Strathcona since he has represented
us in Great Britain. It is a matter of no small moment to Canada
that our representative should be well and favorably known on the
London Stock Exchange as a man of the highest honor and probity,
and a man whose word is universally admitted to be his bond.
I need not tell the house that the emoluments are absolutely
naught to Lord Strathcona. I need not tell the house that in all
probability, in the exercise of hospitality which he has indulged
in during a single London season, he will vastly exceed all that
is nominally assigned to him as the representative of Canada. I
think every member of the house who has occasion to visit London
will testify that, whether or not the office in other respects
comes up to all that he desires, Lord Strathcona, at any rate, is
worthy of upholding in every possible way the honor and dignity
of Canada. I may further add that Lord Strathcona is a man whose
advice is eagerly sought and has very great weight, indeed, with
the British government and with Englishmen, Scotsmen and Irishmen
of every rank and station. As regards his influence in what I
may call the diplomatic circle and the ministerial circle and on
the Stock Exchange, Canada would find it pretty hard, indeed, to
replace Lord Strathcona.”

Lord Strathcona’s name stands high on the roll of those who have
figured most prominently in financial circles in the Dominion. He
was one of the large shareholders of the Bank of Montreal, became
its vice president in 1882 and president in 1887. It was only
after many years’ residence in London that he resigned in 1905,
whereupon he was immediately elected honorary president for life.
He studied banking from every possible standpoint and in all of
its relations to other business interests. His first address to
the shareholders after he became president was a notable one. He
spoke of the bountiful harvests in Canada and in the American
northwest and recognized the fact that shipping interests must
bring the grain to Montreal and that the bank would benefit
thereby. Few men would have considered the question in so wide
a scope. Year after year during his presidency Lord Strathcona
continued to call attention to the wealth of the nation as
provided by the agricultural districts of the northwest and time
has proven the wisdom of his judgment in this regard.

Not only was Lord Strathcona a railroad builder, a distinguished
financier and a political leader, but he was also one of Canada’s
most generous philanthropists. He never for a moment forgot
his own struggles and his hand was ever out-reaching to assist
another. His munificence was princely, yet his giving was most
unostentatious in its character and no one will ever know the
extent of his private charities. Some of his gifts, however, he
could not conceal. In association with Lord Mount Stephen he gave
one million for the erection of a great hospital in Montreal
to commemorate the queen’s jubilee. Later, when the building
had been erected on the mountain side, they gave equally in the
sum of eight hundred thousand to endow the institution and the
Royal Victoria is today one of the best equipped hospitals on
the continent. Modern science has been exhausted to furnish it
adequately and the large endowment makes it possible to keep pace
with the newest discoveries and inventions. McGill University has
again and again been the beneficiary of Lord Strathcona until
the sum total of his gifts reaches two million dollars, and in
addition he has presented to the university the land on which
to erect the new medical building and the site and building of
the Royal Victoria College. He also gave the income of a million
dollars as an endowment to the Royal Victoria College and the
chair of zoology. The former was founded for the higher education
of women and is one of the most popular and useful of his
bequests to McGill. Lord Strathcona was early chosen a governor
of McGill and was elected chancellor of the university in 1889.
The gifts to the university for the faculty of medicine included
the Leanchoil endowment, in memory of his mother, fifty thousand
dollars; for endowment of the chair of pathology, fifty thousand
dollars; for endowment of the department of hygiene, fifty
thousand dollars. The faculty of applied science benefited by the
endowment of its pension fund, fifty thousand dollars, while the
faculty of arts also benefited by a like amount for the same
object. Of the five hundred thousand dollar gift, given in 1909,
it was stipulated that fifty thousand should go for augmenting
the salaries of the professional staff. To the Trafalgar
Institute, affiliated with McGill University, he gave thirty
thousand dollars. Together with Lord Mount Stephen he endowed a
Canadian scholarship in the Royal College of Music, London, and
subsequently endowed a second scholarship on his own account.
Lord Strathcona took an active interest in the cooperative scheme
put in operation in 1912 by the Montreal Theological Colleges
affiliated with McGill and in the summer of 1913 contributed one
hundred thousand dollars to a half million dollar fund raised
by the friends of the four institutions concerned--Anglican,
Presbyterian, Methodist and Congregational--to place the joint
work upon a permanent basis. As honorary chairman of the
Western committee of the Young Men’s Christian Association Lord
Strathcona gave one hundred and fifty thousand dollars to funds
for the Young Men’s Christian Association buildings in Manitoba,
Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.

Lord Strathcona’s patriotism and generosity found expression in
the equipment of the famous Strathcona Horse, a military force
of five hundred and forty men completely equipped and sent to
the front at a critical period of the war. He paid the expenses
of equipment, pay and transport until the regiment reached Cape
Town. The service of the regiment was, indeed, a credit to
its founder and has become a part of the military history of
Canada. Another of Lord Strathcona’s beneficent gifts was the
contribution of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to create
an annual fund of ten thousand dollars for the encouragement
of physical and military training in the public schools of the
Dominion. In writing upon this subject Lord Strathcona said:

“While I attach the highest importance to the advantages of
physical training and elementary drill for all children of
both sexes, I am particularly anxious that the especial value
of military drill, including rifle shooting for boys capable
of using rifles, should be constantly borne in mind. My object
is not only to help to improve the physical and intellectual
capabilities of the children by inculcating habits of alertness,
orderliness and prompt obedience but also to bring up the boys
to patriotism and to a realization that the first duty of a free
citizen is to be prepared to defend his country. The Dominion at
the present time and for many years to come can hardly hope to be
able to give so long a period of training to her military forces
as by itself would suffice to make them efficient soldiers, but
if all boys had acquired a fair acquaintance while at school with
simple military drill and rifle shooting the degree of efficiency
which could be reached in the otherwise short period which can be
devoted to the military training of the Dominion forces would in
my opinion be enormously enhanced.”

Among other evidences of his generosity was a gift of one hundred
thousand dollars in June, 1913, through the minister of militia,
for the purchase of a site on Lorne Crescent for a drill hall for
the exclusive use of McGill students.

Lord Strathcona has been equally generous in his assistance of
Scottish institutions. He gave to Marischal College, Aberdeen,
one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars and to Aberdeen
University fifty thousand dollars. He became chancellor of the
university in 1903 and held the office throughout his remaining
days, while from the students came the honor of election as lord
rector of that university. He founded the Leanchoil Cottage
Hospital in his native town of Forres and gave generously to
other charitable and educational institutions of his native land.
In 1902 he gave a million dollars to the fund for King Edward’s
Hospital and about the same time gave fifty-two thousand, five
hundred dollars to Queen Alexandra’s fund for the unemployed.

Lord Strathcona was honored with the friendship of Queen
Victoria, King Edward and Queen Alexandra and of King George and
Queen Mary and for many years His Royal Highness the Duke of
Connaught regarded him as a close friend. He was the host of King
George and Queen Mary when as Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and
York they visited Montreal in September, 1911. By invitation he
was present at the coronation of King Edward and Queen Alexandra
in 1902 and at the funeral of the former in 1910 he was one of
Canada’s representatives. Again in his official capacity he was
present at the coronation of King George and Queen Mary in 1911.

Many academic honors were conferred upon Lord Strathcona. He
received the LL. D. degree from Cambridge in 1887; LL. D., Yale,
1892; LL. D., Aberdeen, 1899; LL. D., Laval, 1902; LL. D.,
Toronto, 1903; LL. D., Queen’s, Kingston, 1905; LL. D., Ottawa,
1906; LL. D., St. Andrew’s, 1911; and D. C. L., Durham, 1912.
He was presented with the freedom of the city of Aberdeen in
1902; of Edinburgh in 1903; of Bristol in 1908; and of Bath in
1911. Lord Strathcona’s portrait by Arless was exhibited at the
Royal Academy in London in 1890. Another portrait by Jongers
was presented to McGill University by the governors of that
institution in 1901. Still another portrait was presented to
the Canada Club of London in 1902. Lord Strathcona was honorary
president of the Mount Royal Club and also of the Canadian Club
of Montreal. In 1898 he was appointed honorary lieutenant colonel
of the Victoria Rifles, Montreal, a tribute to the interest he
had taken in the military movement in Canada. In 1902 he became
honorary colonel of the Eighth Volunteer Battalion of the King’s
Liverpool Regiment. In 1909 he was honored by being made honorary
colonel of the Fifteenth Light Horse and in 1910 he was made
the honorary colonel of the Seventy-ninth Highlanders. At the
house of the Royal Society of Arts, Adelphi, London, on November
15, 1912, Lord Sanderson, on behalf of the Duke of Connaught,
president of the society, presented the society’s Albert medal
to Lord Strathcona “for his services in improving the railway
communications, developing the resources and promoting the
commerce and industry of Canada and other parts of the British
empire.” Lord Sanderson read a message from the Duke of Connaught
in which His Royal Highness said: “In my present office of
governor general of Canada I have had special opportunities of
fully realizing the great services Lord Strathcona has rendered
to the Dominion and to the industrial and commercial progress of
the British empire. As an old friend of many years’ standing I
rejoiced that, as president of the Society of Arts, I had been
able to add another mark of appreciation of his long and valuable
career of usefulness.”

Lord Strathcona was a familiar figure at the Athenaeum Club in
Pall Mall, the center of British culture and exclusiveness. In
one of its handsome dining rooms he delighted to gather together
distinguished men of Great Britain to meet visiting Canadians
of high rank and greatly was the honor appreciated. Sir Wilfrid
Laurier and Mr. Borden have both enjoyed the High Commissioner’s
hospitality in this luxurious form and realized afresh what a
genius for entertaining was his.

A contemporary biographer has written:

“On November 12, 1913, Lord Strathcona suffered bereavement
by the death of Lady Strathcona, who died in her eighty-ninth
year, at their London home, Grosvenor Square, most unexpectedly.
Pneumonia was the cause of death. Lord Strathcona bore the blow
with much fortitude and made continuous acknowledgement of
many hundreds of messages of sympathy which came to him from
all quarters and classes, from the king and the royal family
downwards.

“Isabella Sophia, Lady Strathcona, was the daughter of the late
Mr. Richard Hardisty, long a resident of Montreal and also for
many years one of the trusted agents of the Hudson’s Bay Company
in Labrador. She became the wife of Lord Strathcona when he was
twenty-nine years of age. The early married life of Lord and
Lady Strathcona was spent in the bleak winds of Labrador. It was
a terrible country in those days. Winter comes early and stays
late--and such a winter! A few short hours of frozen day, then
night--a long uncanny night. Sometimes the snow falls through
weeks on weeks and no man dares to move beyond the circle of
the little settlement. Wolves in those days would sweep the
icy paths, truculent, hungry, seeking their sustenance. At
night about the little camp their hordes would sweep howling in
mournful unison. By day, men went their ways but cautiously,
watching the hard grey sky above and the hard white snow below.

“Lady Strathcona accompanied her husband everywhere in his long
years of service of the Hudson’s Bay Company. They saw Lake
Winnipeg before the city was. They traveled the dreadful wastes
where the great Mackenzie river tumbles across the Arctic circle.
Dreary Keewatin they learned from end to end, tramping in and out
from the posts on Hudson’s bay. They threaded the forests on the
Ontario hinterland and on foot or by dog sled paced the thousands
of miles of prairie that lie between Lake Winnipeg and the Rocky
mountains.

“Lord and Lady Strathcona spent over sixty years of happy married
life together. Lady Strathcona maintained her interest in
Canada to the very end and took the keenest interest in public
affairs. She followed events in Canada closely and was especially
interested in everything pertaining to McGill University. All
who were the recipients of her hospitality in London, either as
the wife of Canada’s high commissioner or as private guests were
charmed with the kindness displayed to them by Lady Strathcona.
Lady Strathcona was presented, with Lord Strathcona, to Queen
Victoria in Windsor Castle in July, 1886, and to King Edward and
Queen Alexandra at Buckingham Palace in March, 1903, and April,
1904. She was present, with Lord Strathcona, in Westminster Abbey
at the coronation of King Edward and Queen Alexandra. With Lord
Strathcona she was also present at the coronation of King George
and Queen Mary, in June, 1911.

“Although a woman of a retiring and altogether unostentatious
nature Lady Strathcona throughout her life splendidly seconded
her husband in his innumerable acts and schemes for the benefit
of the people of Canada and of mankind at large. With her
daughter, the Hon. Mrs. Howard, Lady Strathcona gave one hundred
thousand dollars to McGill University for the erection of a new
wing to the medical building. To Queen Alexandra’s fund for the
relief of the unemployed of Great Britain she gave fifty-two
thousand, five hundred dollars and from time to time she also
gave largely in many directions. Throughout she exercised a large
and gracious hospitality. At Knebworth House and at Glencoe in
Scotland she was beloved by the people for her many acts of
kindness and generosity.

“Lady Strathcona accompanied Lord Strathcona on his flying
visit to Canada in the autumn of 1913, when His Lordship came
to Montreal to take part in the ceremonies connected with the
congress of the American Bar Association. Lady Strathcona at that
time appeared to be in the best of health and spirits. They were
present together at the recent reception given by the Duke and
Duchess of Connaught at St. James Palace just before Their Royal
Highnesses left London to return to Canada.

“Lady Strathcona’s funeral took place to Highgate cemetery on
November 18, after a simple service in the Church of St. Mark.
Lord Strathcona was a pathetic figure as he followed the coffin
to the church, leaning on the arm of his daughter, the Hon. Mrs.
Howard. Among the numerous floral tributes was a handsome wreath
with a tender inscription from Queen Mother Alexandra. It bore
the words, ‘To dear Lady Strathcona--a sorrowing tribute to the
memory of a beloved wife and companion for sixty-five years--From
Alexandra.’”

It was but little more than two months after the death of Lady
Strathcona that Lord Strathcona passed away, his death occurring
January 21, 1914. His was a strikingly splendid figure even at
the age of ninety-three. He had learned well the lessons of life.
Nobility of character and high purpose had won for him imperial
honors and had made him one of the world’s empire builders.


ROBERT JAMES INGLIS.

At the time of his death, which occurred on the 25th of June,
1903, Robert James Inglis was at the head of the most extensive
merchant tailoring establishment and the best known business
of its kind in Montreal, which was developed entirely through
his efforts and capability. He was recognized as a self-made
man and his example should serve as a source of encouragement
and inspiration to others. He was born in Hamilton, Ontario, in
1856 and in 1875, when but nineteen years of age, he opened a
tailoring establishment on St. Joseph, now Notre Dame Street.
Although his start in life was comparatively unimportant, he soon
demonstrated his capability and proved that he was worthy of
confidence and support. Year by year his patronage grew and after
nine years at his original location he removed to Beaver Hall
Hill while later he was for five years on St. Catherine Street
West. Less than one month prior to his demise he opened his
establishment in a business block which he had erected, having
well appointed and attractive quarters in which he carried a
large and carefully selected line of goods. In style, excellence
of design and workmanship the output of his establishment could
not be surpassed, and progressive methods and honorable dealing
led to the establishment of a business of large and gratifying
proportions.

Mr. Inglis was survived by his widow and four sons: Douglas S.,
Robert J., W. Stewart, and Lockhart C. The first two are in
charge of the business of R. J. Inglis, Ltd., of Montreal, and
W. Stewart is in charge of the branch of the firm in Winnipeg,
established after the death of his father. Mr. Inglis had reached
a position where the comforts and luxuries of life were at his
command but death called him when he was only forty-seven years
of age. He was a prominent member of Victoria Lodge, No. 57, A.
F. & A. M., but he was never a club man, preferring the enjoyment
of the pleasures of his home. He possessed a strong character,
marked individuality and pleasing personality and was loved by
all who knew him. His acquaintance was a wide one, for his entire
business life had been spent in Montreal and he had gained for
himself a creditable position in business and social circles.


CHARLES BLAIR GORDON.

Manufacturing and financial interests in Montreal find a worthy
representative in Charles Blair Gordon, practical, progressive
and determined. His familiarity with the line of business in
which he is engaged, his recognition of opportunities and his
laudable ambition have gained him distinction and success, and
material progress has been largely promoted through his efforts.
Perhaps there is no other man in Canadian business life whose
career so aptly illustrates the reward of conscientious business
energy. Montreal has reason to be proud of the fact that he is
one of her native sons. He was born here in 1867, his parents
being John and Jane Gordon. After passing through consecutive
grades to the high school and mastering the branches of learning
therein taught, he took up the more difficult lessons to be
learned in the school of experience, entering business circles
in the employ of McIntyre, Sons & Company. In that connection he
gained his first knowledge of business methods and measures, and
the experience which he thus acquired led him to believe that he
might profitably pursue a business career independently. He left
that firm, therefore, to become the organizer of the Standard
Shirt Company, of which he became the manager, and which he
conducted very successfully. At the organization of the Dominion
Textile Company, Mr. Gordon became at first managing director and
vice president. He was elected to the presidency of the company
in 1909 and has since remained at its head, bending his energies
to administrative direction and executive control. The business,
which is one of the worlds’ largest cotton manufacturing
concerns, has developed steadily under his guidance, for he keeps
in close touch with trade conditions and studies every question
bearing upon manufacturing in his line. He was also at one time
vice president of the Montmorency Cotton Mills Company and of the
Colonial Bleaching & Printing Company. He was likewise a director
of the Merchants Cotton Company and is still financially and
officially connected with the Montreal Cotton Company. He is a
director of the Bank of Montreal, president of Penman’s, Ltd.,
president of Hill Crest Collieries, Ltd., vice president of the
well known financial bond and investment house of C. Meredith,
Ltd., and a director of the Ogilvie Flour Mills Company, Ltd. He
is likewise a director of the Ritz-Carlton Company, owners of
the magnificent new hotel, the Royal Trust Company, the Dominion
Bridge Company, and numerous other corporations in the Dominion
of Canada. His judgment is sought as a valuable factor in the
management of all the different business organizations with which
he is connected. McGill University has requisitioned his services
and made him one of its governors. To further the interests
of trade he has become a member of the Canadian Manufacturers
Association and was elected vice president of the Quebec branch
in 1911.

In 1897 Mr. Gordon was united in marriage to Miss Annie Brooks,
of Seaforth, Ontario, and they reside at Terra Nova on St. Luc
road, Ville Notre Dame des Neiges, Montreal. His social interests
largely center in his membership in the Mount Royal, Canada,
Montreal Hunt, Montreal Racquet, Montreal Jockey and Royal St.
Lawrence Yacht Clubs. Mr. Gordon is a typical man of the age.
He has gone beyond many who perhaps started out ahead of him
in the race of life, this being due to his close application,
unfaltering energy, and an earnest and persistent desire to
accomplish at any one point in his career the utmost possibility
for success at that point. He belongs to that class of valued and
representative citizens who in advancing individual interests
have also largely promoted the public good.


LESLIE HALE BOYD.

Leslie Hale Boyd is not only a student of the law but also of
the vital public questions which are engaging wide attention,
and is, as well, widely known in connection with many athletic
and similar organizations. Montreal numbers him among her native
sons, his birth having here occurred July 31, 1873, his parents
being Andrew and Georgina L. (Hale) Boyd. Passing through
consecutive grades in the public schools, he entered the Montreal
high school and eventually pursued the arts and law courses in
McGill University, which in 1894 conferred upon him the B. A.
degree and in 1897 that of B. C. L. In 1898 he began practice as
an advocate, and while advancement at the bar is proverbially
slow no dreary novitiate awaited him. Almost from the beginning
of his professional career he was accorded a liberal clientage
and is now one of the prominent practitioners of the Montreal
bar. In 1908 he was created king’s counsellor. As he has won
success in his profession, he has made investments in real estate
and is now the owner of considerable valuable property in the
city.

In 1898 Mr. Boyd was married to Miss Emma Constance, a daughter
of the late William Farrell, of Montreal, but her death occurred
in August, 1909. Mr. Boyd makes his home at No. 1036 Dorchester
Street West. He is a Presbyterian in religious faith and is
identified with various social organizations and with different
societies having to do with the material development and welfare
of the city. He belongs to the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association, which has honored him with the presidency, and in
1908 he was vice president of the Amateur Athletic Federation
of Canada. He likewise belongs to the Canada Club and the
Engineers Club, the Caledonia and St. Lawrence Curling Clubs, the
Canadian Club and the Rangers, Fish and Game Club, and he figures
prominently in the various athletic and similar organizations to
which he belongs. His interest in affairs of general importance
is indicated in the fact that he is a governor of the Montreal
Homeopathic Hospital and a member of the Protestant board of
school trustees at St. Henri, P. Q. The conservative party
numbers him among its active workers and representatives, and in
1910 he was elected alderman of St. George’s ward of Montreal
as a reform candidate, and in 1912 and 1914 was reelected by
acclamation. In May, 1912, he ran in the St. Lawrence division
as the conservative candidate for the provincial legislature but
was defeated. The talents with which nature endowed him he has
wisely used, not only for the benefit of himself but for the
improvement of municipal and moral conditions and physical and
mental development.


COLIN MCARTHUR.

It is a natural thing that when the sons of Great Britain desire
to emigrate they turn toward one of the colonial possessions of
the great British empire, and thus it is that a large percentage
of Canada’s citizens have come from Scotland. Among the number
was Colin McArthur, who was born in Glasgow in 1835, a son
of James McArthur, a mason contractor of that city. He was
educated in St. Enoch’s school of Glasgow and for sixteen years
was associated with the firm of Wylie & Lockhead, wall paper
manufacturers, acting as manager of their interests most of the
time. While in their employ he frequently visited Canada and
the United States in the interests of the house, and eventually
taking up his permanent abode in Canada, embarked in business in
Toronto. In 1879, however, he came to Montreal and entered into
business with J. C. Watson in the manufacture of wall paper under
the firm name of Watson & McArthur. This relation was maintained
uninterruptedly until 1884, when Mr. McArthur withdrew from the
firm and established the present business, that of Colin McArthur
& Company, wall paper manufacturers. In the early days skilled
labor had to be brought from the States, but in time men of this
country were trained for the work and with the introduction of
improved machinery the business developed rapidly. The trade grew
enormously and Mr. McArthur was not only one of the pioneers in
his line but controlled one of the most extensive and successful
enterprises of that character. He thoroughly understood every
phase of the business and, watchful of details pointing to
success, his capable control was manifest in the excellent
results which rewarded him.

Mr. McArthur was first married to Margaret Jamieson, of Largs,
Scotland, and had two children. David married Rose Wilkinson and
died in 1902, leaving a widow and three children, Colin, David
and Margaret. Margaret, the daughter, is now living in Montreal.
Mr. McArthur married in England, in 1869, Miss Annie Williamson,
who survives him and resides in Montreal.

Mr. McArthur was an active factor in public interests as well as
in business circles. He joined the Board of Trade in 1888, and
he was much interested in public institutions and in plans for
the general welfare. He was a life member of the General Hospital
and was a member of the Caledonia and St. Andrew’s Societies.
He also was a life member of the Protestant Insane Hospital and
took an active interest in the founding of that institution.
A Presbyterian in religious faith, his many good deeds had
their inception in his Christian belief. He did much for charity
and in fact was continually assisting others, yet all in a most
unostentatious manner. He never spoke of his benevolent acts and
shrank from all publicity of that character, yet there are many
who have reason to bless his memory for aid rendered in an hour
of need.

[Illustration: COLIN McARTHUR]


GEORGE EDWARD DESBARATS.

The late George Edward Desbarats was head of the well known
printing firm of Desbarats & Company of Montreal, which, for
many years has set the standard for all that is progressive in
this field of business activity. He was a representative of a
family that through many generations has been closely connected
with the printing business, successive generations being in the
vanguard of those who have been most active in bringing about
the advancement and improvement in connection with the art
preservative of arts. The History of Printing and Bookbinding in
the State of Bearne gives account of Pierre Desbarats, bookseller
from 1638, who established in 1651 the first printing office to
have more than a transient existence in the state of Bearne;
while Jean Desbarats, 1656 to 1687, was named printer to the
Royal College of Bearne in 1662, printer to the Jesuit College
at Pau in 1663 and printer to the King and the Royal College in
1680. Jean Desbarats, 1687 to 1714, was appointed King’s printer
and printer to the Royal College in 1687. Isaac Desbarats, 1714
to 1737, was printer to the States of the Province of Bearne
and on the 24th of December, 1719, was officially appointed to
succeed Jean Desbarats as King’s printer. Parliamentary decree
of April 27, 1730, admitted him to the ranks of the nobility as
“Isaac Desbarats, King’s Printer, Seigneur de Labarthe Buisson.”
Isaac Charles Desbarats, 1737-1787, was made printer to the King
and to the States of the Kingdom of Navarre, September 20, 1737.
He succeeded to the rank of Seigneur de Labarthe Buisson and was
“Avocat au Parlement.” The printing establishment was inherited
by Jeanne Desbarats but the government would not allow a woman to
carry on the printing business and it had to be sold. The above
indicates the close connection of the family with the printing
business in France from 1638 to 1787. The family name has figured
with equal prominence in Canada. Pierre Edouard Desbarats was
named King’s printer January 27, 1800, and so continued until
his death in 1828. His son, Georges Pascal Desbarats, father of
George E. Desbarats of this review, succeeded his father and in
1844 was named Queen’s printer.

The family had been founded in Canada by Joseph Desbarats, who
came to this country in 1756 and in 1761 married Marie Louise
Crête at Beauport. He died in 1810. Their son, Pierre Edouard
Desbarats, was married in September, 1798, to Josephte Voyer
and at the time of his death, in 1828, was not only printer of
His Majesty’s laws, but was also assistant clerk of the house,
lieutenant colonel and justice of the peace. His son, Georges
Pascal Desbarats, married Henriette Dionne, daughter of Hon.
Amable Dionne. She died in 1839, while G. P. Desbarats passed
away in 1864. He had succeeded his father in business and in 1844
was named Queen’s printer, in which connection he removed with
the Government to Kingston, Toronto and Quebec as the government
was successively established in those cities. He was also
lieutenant colonel of militia.

George Edward Desbarats was born at Quebec, April 5, 1838, and in
the attainment of his education attended Holy Cross College at
Worcester, Massachusetts, from 1846 to 1851; St. Mary’s College
at Montreal from 1852 until 1855 and Laval University at Quebec
from 1855 until 1857. He won the degrees of Bachelor of Arts
and Bachelor of Laws and thoroughly qualified for the bar. He
studied with the Hon. Jean Thomas Taschereau in 1857 and with
the law firm of Bethune & Dunkin in Montreal. He was received at
the bar of Lower Canada in 1859 and was offered a partnership in
the firm of Laflamme & Laflamme but declined in order to enter
his father’s printing office, in which connection he remained in
Quebec until 1865, when he went to Ottawa which had been made the
new seat of government. In Quebec he published several volumes
of original French-Canadian literature, among which were: Le
Foyer Canadien in three volumes, eleven hundred and thirty-six
pages; La Littérature Canadienne, in two volumes, seven hundred
and eighty pages; Essais Poétiques, Lemay, in one volume, three
hundred and twenty pages; Les Anciens Canadiens, P. A. de Gaspe,
in one volume, four hundred and twelve pages; Mémoires de M. de
Gaspe in one volume, five hundred and sixty pages; Canadians of
Old (English) in one volume, three hundred and thirty pages; Mère
Marie de l’Incarnation, L’Abbé H. R. Casgrain, in one volume,
four hundred and sixty pages; Vies des Saints, Abbé Casgrain,
in one volume, seven hundred and fifty pages; Lives of the
Saints (English) in one volume, seven hundred and fifty pages;
Chansons Populaires du Canada, Ernest Gagnon, in one volume,
three hundred and seventy-five pages; Contes Populaires, Paul
Stevens, in one volume, two hundred and sixty-five pages; Traité
d’Art & d’Histoire Militaire, L. T. Sugor, in one volume, four
hundred and seventy-two pages; Instructions Chrétiennes pour les
Jeunes Gens, in one volume, three hundred and twenty pages; and
Le Protestantisme, Etc., Abbé Guillaume, five hundred and fifty
pages.

On removing to Ottawa in 1865 Mr. Desbarats occupied a building
erected for this purpose which was begun during his father’s
lifetime and belonged to the estate. Malcolm Cameron, who had
been Queen’s printer with the father of George Edward Desbarats
after the death of Stewart Derbishire, held the patent alone from
1864 to 1869 and was G. E. Desbarats’ partner in the printing
business. The building erected there in Ottawa was one of the
largest business blocks of the city at that time. It was in this
building that the Hon. Thomas D’Arcy McGee lodged in company with
Sir Hector Langevin and others on the occasion of his atrocious
assassination and it was upon the place where the murder occurred
that Mr. Desbarats caused to be erected a memorial tablet. This,
it has been supposed gave offence to a certain lawless element in
the population, resulting in the destruction of the noble pile
of buildings by the incendiary’s torch. After the destruction of
the building by fire on the 21st of January, 1869, it was not
rebuilt. The Cartier-Macdonald government was then in power and
gave out the Gazette, laws, etc., to public competition. G. E.
Desbarats was appointed Queen’s printer and charged with making
the schedules, getting the tenders and adjudging the contracts.
He held the office for about a year and then resigned to remove
to Montreal, where he had large interests in a lithographic
and photo-engraving business which he had established there in
connection with the Leggo Brothers. The fire of January 21,
1869, destroyed the complete first edition of Les Oeuvres de
Champlain, which G. E. Desbarats was publishing at that time,
the compiler and annotator being L’Abbé Laverdiere, librarian
of Laval University. Not only was the manuscript destroyed but
also the electrotype plates and illustrations. The only copy
saved was that in proof sheets in Mr. Laverdiere’s hands. Mr.
Desbarats determined to republish the work at once. The second
edition was printed direct from the type, being limited to one
thousand copies. The six volumes, which are quarto, contain some
sixteen hundred and fifty pages and are copiously illustrated
with facsimiles of the original charts, maps and cuts produced
by the Leggotype process. This great work was published by G. E.
Desbarats in 1870 and is considered the finest book issued so far
from the Canadian Press. He was also the publisher, in Ottawa, of
H. J. Morgan’s Bibliotheca Canadensis.

At the fire in Ottawa G. E. Desbarats’ net loss was over one
hundred thousand dollars. The estate also lost heavily on the
building, which was only partly insured. At a meeting of citizens
an address of sympathy was voted to Mr. Desbarats and afterwards
presented to him, handsomely engrossed, bearing the city seal,
signed by the mayor and others and framed.

In 1869 G. E. Desbarats built a printing office on St. Antoine
Street, Montreal, and there founded The Canadian Illustrated
News, the first number of which was issued on October 30, of that
year, with Alexander Robertson as the first editor and E. Jump as
chief artist. The illustrations were at first photo-electrotypes
produced by the Leggotype process. In 1870 Mr. Desbarats founded
a French companion paper to the Canadian Illustrated News called
L’Opinion Publique, a twelve-page paper, the illustrations in
which were for the most part the same as those in the English
weekly. The editors were J. A. Mousseau and L. O. David.
Among the contributors to its pages were P. J. O. Chauveau,
L. H. Frechette, Joseph Marmette, J. A. Poisson, Benjamin
Sulte, W. Gelinas, Joseph Tassé and many other distinguished
French-Canadian writers. By arrangement with Ferdinand Gagnon,
L’Opinion Publique absorbed L’Etendard National of Worcester,
Massachusetts.

In May, 1871, Mr. Desbarats became proprietor of a weekly
literary paper named The Hearthstone. The editorial work of
The Hearthstone was performed by J. A. Phillips. Mr. Desbarats
owned and conducted The Dominion Telegraph Institute which had
been started by Churchill, continuing this for two years, during
which time were sent out many capable telegraph operators now at
the head of their profession. In 1872 he organized the Graphic
Company to publish a daily illustrated paper in the city of
New York. This was the first illustrated daily ever published
and it came to end in about a year, being too far ahead of its
time and lacking the necessary capital. Still the field of his
activity and usefulness constantly broadened, and at all times
he was in the lead among those who have wrought for advancement
and progress in connection with the printing and publishing
business. In March, 1873, he founded The Canadian Patent Office
Record and Mechanics Magazine, a quarto monthly of thirty-two
pages devoted to engineering, manufacturing, mining and other
industrial pursuits. With each number was issued the official
patent office record, the whole amply illustrated, the two parts
together forming a book of from sixty to eighty pages monthly,
the subscription price to which was only a dollar and a half a
year.

In 1873 it was thought advisable to form a stock company to carry
on the Canadian publications and the general Montreal engraving
and printing business. The Desbarats Lithographic & Publishing
Company was therefore organized by G. E. Desbarats, W. P. Hussey,
Luke Moore, William Angus, Jonathan Hodgson, Alexander Buntin and
Daniel MacLellan as provincial directors; G. E. Desbarats and
W. P. Hussey as managers. In April, 1874, Mr. Desbarats entered
into negotiations with G. B. Burland with a view to amalgamating
the two concerns and formed The Burland-Desbarats Lithographing
Company, from which he retired in 1876. He then opened a small
office in the old postoffice building and in 1878 moved to
larger premises and laid the foundation of the present Desbarats
Printing Company, one of the most important establishments of
this character in the Dominion. In 1879 G. E. Desbarats joined
with Notman & Sandham in organizing The Artotype Printing Company
and went himself to New York to learn the artotype work.

In 1884 W. C. Smillie, founder and first president of The
British American Bank Note Company entered into negotiations
with G. E. Desbarats & Company to revive the Canada Bank Note
Company which absorbed G. E. Desbarats & Company’s business
and in which G. E. Desbarats and H. Drechsel were appointed
managers. In 1887 Mr. Desbarats admitted his son, William,
to a partnership and together they published the Dominion
Illustrated, a weekly illustrated paper which also had to be
discontinued for lack of capital. Half-tone engraving was then
in its infancy and Mr. Desbarats was the first to introduce
it into Canada. The process was largely used in the Dominion
Illustrated and a photo-engraving plant was installed to meet
the paper’s requirements. While all days were not equally bright
in his career and indeed in his business experience he saw the
gathering of clouds that threatened disastrous storms, yet his
rich inheritance of energy, determination and initiative enabled
him to turn defeat into victory and promised failures into
brilliant successes. His strict integrity, business conservatism
and judgment were always so universally recognized that he
enjoyed public confidence to an enviable degree and naturally
this brought him a lucrative patronage. In early manhood he
showed conspicuously the traits of character that made his life
brilliantly successful and his mental and physical activity,
combined with thorough training, brought him to an eminent
position as a representative of the printing and publishing
business in Canada.

The business career of Mr. Desbarats with its steps of
successive advancement has been given but what of the man and
his personality? All who remember him speak of him as of the
highest type of gentlemen, his kindly nature and courteous
manner winning for him many warm friends. Even now, twenty years
after his demise, his old employes mention him with the greatest
respect and love. It has been said that there is no better way
to judge an individual than by his treatment of those in his
employ. Judged by this standard, no man has been more worthy
of regard. While in Ottawa his employes presented him a silver
goblet and tray as a mark of esteem. The employes of the Canadian
Illustrated News presented him with two bronze statues and a
necklace for Madame Desbarats and the employes of the Canada Bank
Note Company presented him a water pitcher when he severed his
connection with that company.

Aside from his extensive printing and engraving business Mr.
Desbarats was deeply interested in all that pertained to the
city’s welfare, and those things which are a matter of civic
virtue and civic pride received his indorsement and cooperation.
He took great interest in the Montreal Philharmonic Society of
which he was one of the directors. He was captain in the Civil
Service Rifle Regiment, of a company composed entirely of men
in his employ. During the smallpox epidemic in Montreal in 1885
he was chairman of the citizens’ relief committee and took a
leading part in the establishing of a temporary hospital at the
exhibition grounds. His political allegiance was given to the
conservative party but he took no active part in politics. In
religious faith he was a Roman Catholic and in 1867 was president
of the Société St. Jean Baptiste in Ottawa.

On the 30th of April, 1860, G. E. Desbarats was married to Miss
Lucianne Bossé, eldest daughter of Joseph N. Bossé, advocate
who was afterward senator and subsequently judge. Mr. and Mrs.
Desbarats were married in Quebec and they became the parents of
five sons and two daughters. George J., born January 27, 1861,
and now deputy minister in the naval service, married Miss L.
Scott, a daughter of Sir Richard Scott. William A., born February
14, 1862, is president of the Desbarats Printing Company,
Limited. Edward S. C., born April 24, 1863, is president of the
Desbarats Advertising Agency and married Miss M. A. MacCallum,
daughter of Dr. D. C. MacCallum. Lucianne, born August 10, 1864,
married Lord de Blaquière. Cecile is superior of the Convent
of the Sacred Heart at New Orleans, Louisiana. Alexander died
in childhood; and C. H. Hullett married Miss J. Henkels of
Philadelphia. He is the secretary and treasurer of the Desbarats
Printing Company. He and his brother, William, succeeded to
the business upon their father’s death and it has since been
organized into a joint stock company.

Such in brief is the life history of one who had much to do with
shaping the development of the printing and engraving business
in Canada. His was largely the initiative spirit that brought
about improvement and advancement in methods of printing and
of illustration. He ever maintained the highest standards, was
quick to adopt any new methods which his judgment sanctioned
as of value, and he largely set the standards that others
have followed. His life continued one of increasing activity,
usefulness and of public benefit to the time of his death which
occurred in 1892.


ARTHUR WILLIAM PATRICK BUCHANAN.

In the practice of law devotion to the interests of his clients,
careful preparation of his cases and comprehensive knowledge
of the principles of jurisprudence are salient features which
have gained Arthur William Patrick Buchanan a place among the
well known representatives of the Montreal bar. He was born at
Montreal in 1870, the son of Alexander Brock and Elizabeth Ann
(Best) Buchanan and grandson of the late Alexander Buchanan,
Q. C., a distinguished lawyer and in his day the leader of
the Montreal bar, who married Mary Ann, the daughter of James
Buchanan, H. B. M. consul at New York from 1816 to 1843. After
attending the Montreal high school our subject entered McGill
University and later pursued his law course in Laval University,
where he took the degree of LL. B. in 1893. He was admitted to
the bar of the province of Quebec in 1894 and the same year
began practice as an advocate. He was created a king’s counsel in
1908 and practices in partnership with W. J. White, K. C. Their
clientele is extensive and of a representative character, and Mr.
Buchanan has proved himself a capable and careful lawyer. He is
interested in genealogy and has written a history of his family,
The Buchanan Book (1911).

In 1897 Mr. Buchanan married Berthe Louise, elder daughter of
William Quirin, of Boston and resides at No. 731 Pine Avenue
West. Mr. Buchanan is a life member of the Buchanan Society, a
governor of the Montreal General Hospital and a member of the
St. James Club, the Canada Club, the Montreal Hunt and the Royal
Montreal Golf Club.


ANDREW ROBERTSON.

In many public positions Andrew Robertson gained wide
acquaintance and the efficiency of his service in public behalf
marked him as one of Montreal’s most valued and prominent men. In
commercial circles he was well known as the founder and senior
member of the firms of Andrew Robertson & Company and Robertson,
Stephen & Company, wholesale dry-goods merchants, and later he
became a factor in insurance and financial enterprises. This
however represented but one phase of his life, as he became
connected with many public projects having to do with the general
development and improvement of the city, or with its charitable
and benevolent activities. Abraham Lincoln said, “There is
something better than making a living--making a life,” and it
was that spirit which actuated Andrew Robertson at all times.
He recognized his obligations to his fellowmen and again and
again he played the part of the Good Samaritan, not from any
unavoidable sense of duty but from a deep love for his fellows.

Mr. Robertson was of Scotch birth, the place of his nativity
being Paisley, and the year, 1827. When he arrived at school age
he entered the Paisley grammar school, where he gained a working
knowledge of the common branches of learning. All through his
life he was a student,--a student of books, of men, of affairs
and the signs of the times, and he became a thoroughly well read
man, whose judgment was regarded as sound and his sagacity keen.
After leaving school he learned the weavers trade and in 1840 was
sent to Glasgow and entered upon a four year’s apprenticeship in
a drapery and clothing establishment. Subsequently he became an
employe of a manufacturing firm and displayed such ability and
resourcefulness in this connection that he was soon afterward
admitted into a partnership, and as most of the work of the
firm devolved upon him, his health gave way and his physician
recommended that he go either to Australia or Canada.

Mr. Robertson’s choice fell upon the latter country and in 1853
he sailed for the new world, accompanied by his wife and two
sons. He at once joined the wholesale dry-goods firm of Brown
& Swan and, on retiring therefrom two years later, founded the
firm of Andrew Robertson & Company which in 1867 was merged with
the older established business of William Stephen & Company and
continued under the style of Robertson, Stephen & Company. With
the firm and its successors he was continuously connected
until 1885, when he retired. Early in the 60’s he built the
Auburn Woolen Mill at Peterboro, Ontario, for the manufacture
of Canadian tweeds, and successfully directed it from Montreal
until 1867, when he sold it as part of the purchase price of
the Stephen business. His methods were ever progressive, and
his close application and indefatigable energy constituted the
foundation upon which he builded his prosperity.

[Illustration: ANDREW ROBERTSON]

While building up a commercial enterprise of large and profitable
proportions, Mr. Robertson always found time to devote to public
duties and the promotion of the general welfare. Joining the
St. Andrew’s Society in 1857 he served as treasurer in 1862
and 1863, second vice president in 1864 and 1865, first vice
president in 1868 and president during 1869 and 1870. In 1876 he
was president of the Dominion Board of Trade and in that and the
following year was also president of the Montreal Board of Trade.
He had the honor of being chosen the first president of the
Dominion Commercial Travelers’ Association, and thus he figured
prominently among the men who were most active in commercial
pursuits. He himself extended his efforts as a business man with
the passing years and became president of the Royal Canadian
Insurance Company in 1876, in which position he continued until
his death, while from its formation in 1880 until his demise he
was president of the Bell Telephone Company of Canada.

His public service was of a varied character and embraced
connection with charitable and benevolent objects, with public
works and with movements having to do with general progress and
improvement. In 1872 Mr. Robertson became one of the governors of
the Montreal General Hospital and later was elected and served
successively as treasurer, vice president and president. In 1879
he was elected chairman of the board of harbor commissioners for
Montreal and remained in that position until his death. His name
figured also in connection with military activities, beginning
in 1861, when, during the Trent excitement he was gazetted first
lieutenant and quartermaster of the Montreal Light Infantry. Many
tangible evidences of his devotion to the public welfare may
be cited. He familiarized himself with all the details of the
management of the General Hospital and was greatly interested
in the proposal to enlarge it, so that in 1886 upon a trip to
England he consulted some of the best architects of that country
concerning the subject and brought back with him plans for the
proposed extension. The deepening of the ship channel between
Montreal and Quebec was a project which awakened his strong
and hearty enthusiasm, and he frequently said that when he saw
the completion of the plan he would retire from the active
duties of chairman of the board, well satisfied. He was of a
nervous temperament, possessed marked energy and was a tireless
worker, and before his health became impaired he was actively
and helpfully interested in the movement for the improvement of
the harbor and the prevention of damages by flood. During the
great flood of 1885 he was making a tour through the submerged
district in a canoe, propelled by one of the oldest river men.
His companion of that occasion testified to the deep interest
he took in the poor people of the district. He left the harbor
commissioners’ office with forty or fifty dollars in his pocket
and when he returned he had not enough cash to pay the boatman,
having given all to the flood sufferers. This is but one incident
of his generous spirit, which was constantly manifested. He
was of a most charitable disposition but he gave in a quiet,
unassuming manner, following the mandate not to let the left
hand know what the right hand doeth. Again and again his gifts
of charity were known only to the recipients.

On the 19th of April, 1850, in Scotland, Mr. Robertson was
married to Miss Agnes Bow, a daughter of the late Alexander Bow,
of Glasgow, and they became parents of ten children, four sons
and six daughters, of whom the sons and four daughters are still
living, six being residents of Montreal, while one daughter and
one son reside on the Pacific coast.

At the time of his death, which occurred March 29, 1890,
Mr. Robertson was chairman of the harbor commission and his
associates in that work, as also those in other relations of
life, entertained for him the highest regard. In politics he was
conservative and in church connection a Presbyterian. In his
Christian faith was found the root of a well spent, honorable
life, reaching out along many lines for the benefit of his
fellowmen. The world is better for his having lived and his
memory remains as a blessed benediction to those who knew him.
Mrs. Robertson survived her husband for nine years, passing
away suddenly in her beautiful home, Elmbank, Dorchester Street
West, on the 6th of July, 1899, mourned by a large circle of old
friends.


REV. JOSEPH GUILLAUME LAURENT FORBES.

Rev. Joseph Guillaume Laurent Forbes, bishop of Joliette, was
formerly the spiritual director of the thirty-nine hundred
families which make up the great French-Canadian parish of St.
Jean Baptiste in Montreal, a position of responsibility as
well as one of power and importance among the Catholic people
of the city. This responsibility rested upon the shoulders of
a conscientious, capable and God-fearing man and the power
was used wisely and humbly, so that Father Forbes has become
an important force in the conservation and propagation of the
doctrines which he teaches and professes. He is a native of the
province of Quebec, born in Isle Perrot, near Montreal, August
10, 1865, a son of John and Octavie (Léger) Forbes, both natives
of Vaudreuil. The Forbes family was founded in Canada in 1757 and
representatives of the Léger family came to Quebec with the first
French colonists in 1608. Both parents are still living, the
father having retired from active life.

Rev. Guillaume Forbes acquired his early education in the
kindergarten at the Nazareth Asylum in charge of the Grey Nuns in
Montreal and was afterward a student at the Catholic Commercial
Academy of this city. He was graduated from Montreal College with
the class of 1882 and from the Seminary of Philosophy in 1884.
He finished the course in the College of Theology in 1887 and
was ordained to the Roman Catholic priesthood March 17, 1888.
Immediately afterward he was sent as curate to Caughnawaga, where
he did excellent work among the Iroquois Indians. He held his
original position until 1892 and was then given the direction of
the Caughnawaga mission, serving until 1903. In that year he was
appointed parish priest of the Church of St. Anne de Bellevue, in
the province of Quebec, and he there remained until 1911, when
he was appointed rector of St. Jean Baptiste church in Montreal.
The parish of St. Jean de Baptiste in Montreal is one of the
largest and most important French-Canadian congregations in the
city, and its rector holds a very responsible position and one
which makes him a great individual force in Catholic circles. The
original church building was burned June 27, 1911, and is now
being replaced at a cost of three hundred thousand dollars, the
entire property being valued at five hundred thousand dollars.
Father Forbes had four assistants, Rev. Joseph A. Lefevre, Rev.
Charles A. de Lamirande, Rev. Auguste Paré and Rev. Hector
Quesnel, and had spiritual jurisdiction over thirty-nine hundred
families and nineteen thousand souls, all French-Canadians. He
became very popular and widely beloved among the people of this
congregation, who saw his simplicity of character, his greatness
of heart, his earnestness and sincerity, and who recognized
his administrative and business ability. On the 6th of August,
1913, Rev. Forbes was chosen by the Holy See to succeed the Rt.
Rev. Alfred Archambeault as bishop of Joliette. He received the
episcopal consecration in the cathedral of Joliette from the
hands of His Grace, Monseigneur Bruchesi, archbishop of Montreal,
on the 9th of October, 1913. A brother of Bishop Forbes, the Rev.
Father John Forbes, of the White Fathers, after a stay of sixteen
years in the mission fields of Africa, is since the year 1900
residing in Quebec, superior of the branch house of the Society
of the White Fathers in Canada.

Bishop Forbes is profoundly learned in Indian dialects and is
in addition an author of some note, his works being all of a
religious character. Besides his original volumes he has edited
and republished a Life of Catherine Tekakwitha and an Iroquois
almanac for the years between 1899 and 1903.


ARTHUR EDOUARD JOSEPH BISSONNET.

The name of Bissonnet has long been a distinguished one in this
locality, the first member of the family having been one Pierre,
a son of Jacques, who was born in 1626, and on the 3d of May,
1660, married Mathurène Des Bordes and who, as the records show,
had seven children. A brother of Pierre, Jacques, was married in
1670 and sixteen children are credited to him. Arthur Edouard
Joseph Bissonnet worthily upholds the honor of the family name,
having gained a reputation along legal lines in Montreal, where
he has successfully practiced since 1897. He was born at St.
Hyacinthe, Quebec, and is a son of Napoléon and Domithilde
(Scott) Bissonnet. The father was a well known manufacturer
of that city, where he passed away in 1887, the mother having
predeceased him in 1882. The paternal grandparents were Jérome
and Josephte (Courtemanche) Bissonnet, who died in 1870 and 1872,
respectively.

Arthur E. J. Bissonnet received an excellent education. His
preliminary courses were taken at the College of the Sacred Heart
at Arthabaskaville, which was followed by a classical course at
St. Hyacinthe that earned him the title of M. L. A. In 1894 he
studied law at Laval University and in 1895 and 1896 at McGill
University which he left in 1897 with the degree of B. C. L.,
being admitted to the bar of the province of Quebec in the same
year. His advent in Montreal soon followed and here he has ever
since been engaged in the practice of his profession. No long
novitiate awaited him for he soon demonstrated his ability to
successfully cope with the most intricate law problems and gained
a reputation which connected him with much important litigation.
He has represented some of the foremost firms and individuals as
well as other interests, having attained a name for preparing his
cases thoroughly and presenting them in an able manner. He has
all the attributes of a successful lawyer, clearly sets forth his
cause and by the weight of his character and his insight into
human nature has won a high standing in his profession. In 1909
Mr. Bissonnet was appointed king’s counsel and as such handled
important government cases which especially connected him with
provincial law revenue on duties on successions. His prominence
in fraternal circles has led to his election as legal adviser of
the Council of St. Henry (for 1913), a branch of the Knights of
Columbus at Montreal. Mr. Bissonnet is now at the head of the
legal firm, Bissonnet & Cordeau, occupying suite 606, in the
Royal Trust building.

On the 14th of February, 1905, occurred the marriage of Mr.
Bissonnet to M. A. Ernestine Roy, a daughter of Amedée Roy and
Hemma (Rocher) Roy. The family has been long established in the
county of Bagot, in the province of Quebec, and her father was a
prominent merchant in his locality. Mr. and Mrs. Bissonnet have
the following children, Jean, Léon, Marie Laure, Louise Marie and
Paul.

His political convictions lead Mr. Bissonnet to support the
liberal party, and he is a member of the Montreal Reform Club and
other political institutions. Although not an active politician,
he takes a deep and helpful interest in the issues of the day
that affect the Canadian people as a nation and his province as
part of the Dominion and stands ever ready to support progressive
measures making for advancement, either material or intellectual.
His faith is that of the Catholic church. A distinguished and
influential lawyer, he is highly respected in the profession and
is esteemed by the general public as a public-spirited citizen
who loyally acknowledges and fulfills his duties to his city and
his country.


DUNCAN A. MCCASKILL.

Duncan A. McCaskill was a factor in Montreal’s commercial
development and progress, inasmuch as he was the founder and head
of the house of D. A. McCaskill Company, later McCaskill, Dougall
& Company, manufacturers of railway and carriage varnishes and
japans. The extent and importance of his business made him well
known in commercial circles, while his career demonstrated the
possibilities for successful achievement on the part of any
individual who must perforce start in life as he did, without
any capital to aid him. He was born in Victoria county, Cape
Breton, in 1845 and was a son of Murdo McCaskill, a justice of
two counties of Cape Breton. His education was acquired in his
native county, where the first thirty years of his life were
passed. The year 1875 witnessed his arrival in Montreal, where he
connected himself with one of the large business houses of the
city. During the succeeding five years he steadily progressed and
there awakened in him the ambition to enter commercial circles
on his own account. He took his initial step in the direction
in which his later labors brought him to the prominent position
which he occupied as the head of the house of what is now
McCaskill, Dougall & Company, manufacturers of railway and
carriage varnishes. He was ever a most industrious man, close
application and energy constituting the basis of his success. In
1902 he retired and spent his remaining days in those ways which
afforded him recreation and enjoyment, traveling extensively in
company with Mrs. McCaskill through the United States and Europe.

[Illustration: DUNCAN A. McCASKILL]

Mrs. McCaskill was in her maidenhood Miss Abbott, a member of
the Abbott family of Andover, Massachusetts, and one of the
old New England families. They were separated by death on the
12th of July, 1907, when Mr. McCaskill passed away at Lausanne,
Switzerland.

While an active factor in the business world, Mr. McCaskill also
took a great interest in political matters and for several years
was president of the Sir John A. Macdonald Club. In 1900, at the
solicitation of a large body of electors of his native county,
he became a candidate for political honors. The conservative
party lost in that connection and Mr. McCaskill was defeated at
the polls, although a large vote was accorded him and his course
gained him the general esteem of the people. By preference he
concentrated his efforts upon his business interests and private
affairs and worked his way upward until he stood among the
successful merchants and manufacturers of the city with a record
that commended him to the confidence and admiration of colleagues
and contemporaries.


SAMUEL HAMILTON EWING.

With intense activity intelligently directed and with ability
to plan and perform that amounts almost to genius, Samuel
Hamilton Ewing has become one of the prominent manufacturers and
capitalists of Montreal. He today has financial investments in
many of the most important corporate interests of the province,
and his opinion concerning complex business matters is eagerly
sought and constitutes a valuable element in the attainment of a
wise conclusion.

From his boyhood Samuel Hamilton Ewing has been a resident
of Canada. He was born May 10, 1834, at Lisdillon House,
Londonderry, Ireland, and is a representative of an old family of
Irish origin, his parents being Samuel and Margaret (Hamilton)
Ewing, who with their family crossed the Atlantic to Canada
during the boyhood of their son Samuel H. Entering the public
schools of Montreal, he pursued his education and afterward
joined his brother, Andrew S. Ewing, in the ownership and
management of the extensive coffee and spice mills formerly
owned by his father. The business, established in 1860, was
conducted under the firm style of Samuel Ewing & Sons, Samuel
Hamilton Ewing remaining an active factor in the management and
direction of the business until his retirement from the firm in
1892. In the meantime the efforts of the partners had resulted
in the establishment of an enterprise of extensive proportions.
Gradually he extended his efforts to other fields, becoming
financially and ofttimes actively interested in corporations
which are now recognized as among the foremost in the commercial
and industrial circles of the province. He is president of
the Montreal Cotton Company, president of the Canada Accident
Assurance Company, president of the Levis County Railway and the
Cornwall Street Railway, and is vice president of the Molson’s
Bank and the Sun Life Assurance Company, while he is a director
of the Atlantic Sugar Refinery, the Standard Clay Products,
Limited, the Crown Trust Company, and the Illinois Traction
Company. One of the local papers said of him: “It is doubtful if
there is a more active man of his age in the city of Montreal.”
What he undertakes he accomplishes, and he utilizes opportunities
that many others have passed heedlessly by. Moreover, he has the
ability to unify seemingly dissimilar elements, coordinating them
into a harmonious whole.

Mr. Ewing has been married twice. He first wedded Miss Caroline
Wilson Cheese, of London, England, who died in 1872, and later
he wedded Margaret Anna Knight, who passed away in March, 1908.
She was a daughter of George Knight, of Glasgow, Scotland. Mr.
Ewing’s attractive home, Seaforth, is situated at No. 100 Cote
des Neiges road. He is well known in club circles, holding
membership in the Mount Royal, Canada, St. James and Canadian
Clubs. He is a life governor of the Art Association of Montreal.
His political belief is that of the conservative party but the
honors and emoluments of office have little attraction for him.
He has preferred always to devote his leisure to such activities
as seek the public welfare along charitable or humanitarian
lines. He is a governor of the Montreal General Hospital and
served for several years prior to 1906 as its treasurer. He is
likewise a governor of the Protestant Hospital for the Insane,
and in 1906 was the delegate to the Sixth Congress Chambers of
Commerce of the Empire. Forceful and resourceful, his is a record
of a strenuous life, stable in purpose, quick in perception,
swift in decision, energetic and persistent in action.


ALBERT HEBERT.

Albert Hébert, deceased, who for many years was one of the
best known business men of Montreal, was born in this city,
February 28, 1864. He was educated in the Jesuit College and
the Archambault Commercial School, from which he was graduated.
At the age of seventeen years he entered the firm of Dufresne &
Mongenais and a year later became a member of the firm of Hudon,
Hébert & Company, wholesale grocers. Later, when his father,
C. P. Hébert, retired from the firm, Albert Hébert became the
general manager of the business and so continued throughout his
remaining days, directing the policy and stimulating the progress
of the business, which became one of the important commercial
concerns of the province. A man of resourceful ability, he
was a director of the Montreal City and District Savings Bank
and succeeded his father as treasurer of Notre Dame Hospital.
He was a prominent member of the Board of Trade, serving as a
councillor in 1904 and 1905, a governor of Laval University and
a governor of the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society. Mr. Hébert
was married in Montreal to Miss Loulou Barbeau, a daughter of the
late E. G. Barbeau, who was the first manager of the Montreal
City and District Savings Bank. Mr. and Mrs. Hébert had one
daughter, Joséphine, now the wife of Mr. LsRaoul de Lorimer, of
Montreal. While traveling in Europe Mr. Hébert died at Lucerne,
Switzerland, June 21, 1911, although when he left Montreal for
this trip he was in the best of health. He was but forty-seven
years of age at the time of his demise, yet he stood very high
in the opinion of the leading business men of the wholesale
district of Montreal and was also appreciated and esteemed in
financial circles. When Notre Dame Hospital was threatened with
a financial crisis in 1909 it was Mr. Hébert, the treasurer of
the institution, who opened the subscription and by his energetic
campaign raised the two hundred thousand dollars which saved the
day. One who knew him well and was, therefore, qualified to speak
of his sterling traits of character wrote to the Montreal Star:

[Illustration: ALBERT HEBERT]

“There were many sympathizing and sad hearts in Canada after it
was known that Albert Hébert, Esq., of your city died in the
prime of life, far away from home in Switzerland. In the death
of Mr. Hébert Montreal has lost the prince of the many princely
merchants. He was known far and near not only by reputation
but personally and wherever he was known he was respected and
beloved. I have had business dealings with the late Mr. Hébert
for over a quarter of a century and during that long period I
have had many opportunities of forming an opinion of his worth
as a man and of his splendid abilities as a business man. At the
annual business meeting of the Wholesale Grocers Guild, of which
he was a prominent and respected member and at which meetings
I have often had an opportunity of attending, it was always a
pleasure to hear him speak in his faultless English, with a
slightly French accent. His opinions and advice had a spirit of
fairness and good sense that invariably carried conviction with
them. No better argument in favor of a joint English and French
training could be had than to hear him address a meeting in
English. The late Mr. Hébert will be missed in Montreal. He will
be sadly missed by the many English speaking friends in the west
when they visit Montreal. It is men of his type that are needed
to build up Canada as a nation.”


J. GEORGES PICHE, M. D.

Among the successful physicians of Montreal is Dr. J. Georges
Piché, who has been in practice since 1900. He was born in St.
Gabriel de Brandon, Berthier, province of Quebec, September
4, 1872, and descends from one of the oldest families of that
section.

His father, Camille Piché, was a notary of St. Gabriel for forty
years, occupying the position at the time of his death. He was
regarded as one of the best known and most highly respected
citizens of the locality. He married Sophie Desparrois dit
Champagne, a native of St. Sulpice, province of Quebec.

Dr. Piché acquired his early education at St. Gabriel and later
attended the normal school at Montreal, leaving there in 1887.
He then went to the United States and for several years was
a bookkeeper in the employ of a wholesale grocery house at
Providence, Rhode Island. In 1896 he returned to Montreal and,
having determined upon a professional career, began the study of
medicine at Laval University, where he was graduated in 1900 with
the degree of M. D.

Dr. Piché immediately began the practice of his profession in
Montreal on DeMontigny Street, where he continued with gratifying
success until 1914, when he removed his offices to No. 287
St. Denis Street. He is now accorded a liberal practice and
his ability is constantly increasing as the result of broad
experience and wide reading and research. He is now physician to
the Merchants & Employers Guarantee & Accident Company, and he is
a member of La Société Médicale de Montreal.

In 1894 Dr. Piché was married in St. Gabriel de Brandon, province
of Quebec, to Albertine Bellemore, a daughter of John Bellemore,
of that place, and they have four children: Julien, Georges,
Albert, Ernest and Rachel.


JOHN S. ARCHIBALD.

John S. Archibald, an architect holding to the highest
professional standards and one of Montreal’s native citizens,
is a son of the late David A. Archibald, formerly of Inverness,
Scotland. Reared and educated in Scotland. Mr. Archibald prepared
for the profession which he has made his life work and which he
has successfully followed in Montreal. He is a member of the
firm of Saxe & Archibald and as such has been connected with the
execution of some important professional contracts. A number
of the fine structures of the city stand as monuments to his
skill and ability. Moreover his position is indicated by the
fact that in 1905 he was honored with election to the presidency
of the Architects Association of the province of Quebec and at
the congress of architects held in July, 1906, he moved the
resolution favoring statutory qualifications of architects. He
has never believed in deviating from the highest standards of the
profession.

In December, 1900, Mr. Archibald was united in marriage to
Miss Edith Thurston, the third daughter of J. D. Thurston,
of Montreal. In politics Mr. Archibald is a liberal and is
interested in all projects that are opposed to misrule in civic
affairs and which seek to promote the interests of the many
rather than of the few. He is now a councillor of the Montreal
Reform Club, and he belongs also to the Engineers Club. He has
carefully cultivated the powers and talents with which nature
endowed him and thus has gained more than local recognition as a
capable architect, well versed in the science of his profession.


ESIOFF LEON PATENAUDE.

Among the younger members of the bar of Montreal is Esioff Léon
Patenaude, a member of the well known firm of Leonard, Patenaude,
Filion & Monette, who maintain offices at No. 26 St. James
Street. Not only has Mr. Patenaude attained a prominent position
along strictly legal lines but he has been prominent politically,
having for several terms been elected a member of the provincial
legislative assembly of Quebec and serving at present in that
capacity. He is a member of one of the old French-Canadian
families.

Esioff L. Patenaude was born at St. Isidore on February 12, 1875,
and is a son of Hilaire and Angèle (Trudeau) Patenaude. Early
showing a preference for a legal career, he laid the foundations
of his classical education in Montreal College, from which he
graduated with the degree of B. A., and subsequently studied law
at Laval University, receiving the degree of LL. L. He has since
taken up his practice in Montreal and, having been able soon to
demonstrate his knowledge and ability, has built up a reputation
as one of the foremost advocates of the city. He is a member
of the firm of Leonard, Patenaude, Filion & Monette, who are
connected with much of the foremost litigation before the courts,
their patronage being distinctive and important.

On the 8th of May, 1900, Mr. Patenaude married Miss Georgiana
Deniger and they have two children, Rose Angèle and Alphonse. In
religious faith the family are Roman Catholics. The political
allegiance of Mr. Patenaude is given to the conservative party
and, as he has become widely known in his profession, it was
but natural that he should be chosen to the Quebec legislative
assembly, to which he was elected at the general election of
1908. He was returned to his seat in 1912, his reelection being
the confirmation of his record. He has always exerted himself to
the best of his ability in the interests of his constituents and
has done valuable work in committee rooms as well as on the floor
of the provincial house of parliament. Prominent among the French
colony, Mr. Patenaude is highly respected by all who know him for
what he has attained and for those characteristics which have
made possible his success. He is ever willing to gladly bear his
share in promoting the public welfare and the advancement of the
city and is a forceful factor in Montreal not only along legal
and political lines but in building up material progress and
promoting measures which elevate moral and intellectual standards.


JOSEPH GUSTAVE AVARD.

Joseph Gustave Avard, one of the best known men in real-estate
circles in Montreal, has been instrumental in promoting some
of the largest projects in this city during the past ten
years, notwithstanding the fact that his life record does not
cover one-half the span of time of many other real-estate
dealers of the city. He was born January 29, 1881, at Shirley,
Massachusetts, a son of Louis and Philomene (Sasseville) Avard,
both of whom are natives of St. Hyacinthe county, Quebec. For
some years the father was a saddler at Shirley, Massachusetts,
but since 1883 has resided at St. Hyacinthe.

The son was educated in the schools of St. Hyacinthe, the
Brothers of the Sacred Heart Academy and in the St. Hyacinthe
Practical Business School. For a year he was a clerk in St.
Hyacinthe Bank and through the ensuing four years was with the
Eastern Townships Bank at St. Hyacinthe and Waterloo, Quebec.

In 1903 Mr. Avard came to Montreal as an accountant for the firm
of McPherson & Company, wholesale dealers in cheese and butter.
In 1905 he opened a real-estate office at 47 St. Vincent Street
under the firm name of Avard & Dagenais. This firm continued in
business successfully for five years at that location. On the
expiration of that period the partnership was dissolved and Mr.
Avard opened an office in the Royal Trust building, where he
remained for two years, removing thence to the Transportation
building at No. 120 St. James Street in 1912. In that year
the business was incorporated under the name of J. G. Avard &
Company, Ltd. He promoted the Viauville Lands, Ltd., one of the
largest deals carried through in the past decade. The firm owns
the Tetreauville Annex and are agents for Hudonville Lands, Ltd.
Mr. Avard is also a director of the Dominion Quarry, Ltd., of
the Metropolis Apartment Company, Ltd., Montreal Playhouses,
Ltd., and of the Practical Business School of St. Hyacinthe. His
offices in the Transportation building are models of good taste
and the casual visitor has only to glance around to see that Mr.
Avard is a lover of the fine arts.

On the 2d of October, 1904, Mr. Avard was married, in Montreal,
to Rachel Eva Simard, a daughter of the late Adelard Simard, a
well known lawyer of Waterloo, Quebec. To Mr. and Mrs. Avard have
come three children: Elise; Gaston, who died at the age of eleven
months; and Jean.

Active in the social life of the city, Mr. Avard is a member of
the Canadian Club, the National Sporting Club, the Reform Club,
St. Denis Club and is the vice president of the Laurentide Summer
Home Company, Ltd. Politically he is a liberal, and his religious
faith is indicated in his membership in St. Leon’s Roman Catholic
church at Westmount, where he resides.


ALBERT H. CAMPBELL.

Albert H. Campbell, an active factor in business circles in
Montreal as a member of the firm of A. C. Leslie & Company,
iron, steel and metal merchants on St. Paul Street, remained in
connection with that business until his death, which occurred
August 27, 1907. He was a native of Ontario, born May 13, 1866,
and a son of Dr. Donald P. Campbell, who was also born in the
province of Ontario, where his father had settled upon coming
to Canada from Scotland. Dr. Campbell was a graduate of McGill
University and after preparing for the medical profession
practiced in Vankleek Hill, Ontario, until his death which
occurred in 1870. He was married in Montreal, in 1863, to Miss
Alice Bell, a daughter of James Bell, who came to this city in
1832 from Scotland and was prominent as a contractor and builder
here until his death in 1860. Following the death of her husband,
Mrs. Campbell returned with her family to Montreal, where she has
since resided.

Albert H. Campbell was thus reared in this city and completed his
education in the Montreal high school, in 1883. He first engaged
with Frothingham & Workman after leaving school, spending a few
years with that firm before he embarked in business on his own
account as junior partner in the firm of A. C. Leslie & Company,
iron, steel and metal merchants on St. Paul Street. He then
concentrated his energy upon the development of that business
and was a very active representative of commercial interests in
Montreal until his life’s labors were ended in death. He studied
every phase of the business with which he was connected, readily
recognized and utilized advantages and by methods that neither
seek nor require disguise, won the confidence and respect of
contemporaries and colleagues.

Mr. Campbell was married in Ottawa to Miss Elizabeth Henderson
of Ottawa, whose father, John Henderson, is city clerk there.
Mr. Campbell belonged to the Canadian Club and his social
nature gained him many warm friends. He was a public-spirited
man and gave generous and helpful support to projects for
the general good. He belonged to the Board of Trade and was in
hearty sympathy with its plans for Montreal’s improvement. He was
also a member of the American Presbyterian church and his life
exemplified his belief.

[Illustration: ALBERT H. CAMPBELL]


JOSEPH ISRAEL DESROCHES, M. D.

Capable, earnest and conscientious, Dr. Joseph Israël Desroches
has for many years exercised his profession in Montreal, where he
is widely known to the general public and enjoys high prestige
among his colleagues, especially in regard to hygiene and
children’s hygiene, upon which subjects he is an expert. His
standing is quite evident from his connection with some of the
foremost societies in the medical line in the world and it is
therefore not surprising that his practice should be extensive
and representative as well as lucrative to him. Dr. Desroches was
born in October, 1850, at St. Esprit and is a son of André and
Héloïse (Mercier) Desroches, the former in his day a well known
agriculturist of St. Esprit. The Desroches family is descended
from one Jean Deroches, who was born in 1614 and in 1641 left
Ste. Lucie, near Autun, France, for Villemarie. He made the
journey with one Monsieur de Maisonneuve. In 1647 he married
Françoise Godet and this marriage was the first contract of that
kind to be registered at Villemarie. Jean Deroches had a family
of eight children, of whom his son Pierre married Marie Beaudry
on November 24, 1698, at Pointe-aux-Trembles. It was he who added
the s to the original name of Deroches. Jean Deroches died at
Quebec on August 23, 1664. This record of the early ancestors
of Dr. Desroches is to be found in Abbé Tanguay’s Dictionnaire
Généalogique, in volume I, page 184.

Dr. Desroches pursued his classical studies at the Seminary of
Joliette and received his medical education at the School of
Medicine and Surgery of Montreal. There he received his degree
of M. D. in 1877. He has ever since engaged in his profession
at Montreal and, deeply studious of mind, has ever continued
in perfecting his wide knowledge and keeping up-to-date with
the latest discoveries made in the world’s medical science. The
humane element in his nature is strongly developed and much of
his success must be ascribed to the confidence which he inspires
in his patients and which is recognized today as being one of the
larger factors in effecting a cure. Careful in diagnosis, he is
decisive in his actions after reaching a conclusion and there are
hundreds who can testify to his ability and are grateful to him
for having given them back health and happiness.

It is but natural that a man of Dr. Desroches’ ability should
turn to the scientific side of his profession, not finding his
sole satisfaction in mere attendance upon and ministrations to
the sick. In 1884 he was chosen by the Hygienic Society of the
Province of Quebec as manager of the Journal of Popular Hygiene
and had charge of this valuable medium of influence until 1895,
contributing many articles toward the enlightenment of the
general public. In 1887 Dr. Desroches was nominated an honorary
member of the Société Française of Paris and in the same year,
on the occasion of the exposition of children’s hygiene, held
in Paris, he received from the Hygienic Society for Children,
of that city, a diploma and a gold medal and was chosen a
corresponding member of the society. In 1889 he was made a
corresponding member of the Society of Physical, Natural and
Climatological Sciences of Algiers. From 1892 to 1895 and from
1898 until 1901 Dr. Desroches had charge of the medical bureau of
the province of Quebec and from 1894 until 1900 was a member of
the Provincial Council on Hygiene, of Quebec.

On February 9, 1881, Dr. Desroches was united in marriage to
Miss Albertine Groulx, a daughter of Louis Thomas and Cornélie
(Doyou) Groulx, the former a well known barrister and notary
public of Joliette. Dr. and Mrs. Desroches have the following
children, Jeanne, Gilberte, Henri, Juliette and Lucille. In
various connections the Doctor has made valuable contributions to
hygienic science and the subject of medicine and several of the
works of which he is the author enjoy a wide circulation and are
considered standard by the profession. He is a public-spirited
man, progressive not only in his profession but in regard to all
subjects that affect his home city and is ever ready to give his
warm support to worthy public enterprises. His deep knowledge
assures him of a position of distinction, while his kindly spirit
has gained him a place in the hearts of his fellowmen.


HON. HONORE MERCIER.

Hon. Honore Mercier, minister of colonization, mines and
fisheries, lawyer and legislator, recognized as one of the
liberal leaders of Montreal and also acknowledged one of the
capable representatives of the bar, was born at St. Hyacinthe,
P. Q., in 1875, his parents being the late Hon. H. M. (Count)
Mercier and Virginie (St. Denis) Mercier, the former prime
minister of Quebec and one of the eminent lawyers of the
province, of whom mention will be found elsewhere in this work.

The preparatory education of Honore Mercier was received at
St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College, following which he was privately
tutored in preparation for his work at Laval University, that
institution conferring upon him the LL. B. degree in 1899. He was
made an advocate in 1900, since which time he has successfully
practiced his profession, being now senior member of the law firm
of Mercier & Beique, with offices in the Quebec Bank building.
Mr. Mercier’s knowledge of the principles of jurisprudence
is comprehensive and exact, and his ability, devotion to his
clients’ interests and the thoroughness with which he prepares
his cases have given him high standing as a representative of the
legal profession in the province.

Mr. Mercier has been a prominent figure in municipal and
provincial affairs, standing firmly in support of the principles
and measures which he deems of vital worth. He was elected to
the city council of Montreal in February, 1906, and in 1907, was
appointed a member of L’Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales, of
which he is secretary and treasurer, and in the work of which
institution, Mr. Mercier has proven a most capable official.

He was chosen in the liberal interest to represent Chateauguay
in the provincial parliament, where he has sat almost
uninterruptedly since 1907. On April 29, 1914, he was appointed
minister of colonization, mines and fisheries in the Gouin
cabinet. He gives earnest and thoughtful consideration to the
questions of the day and is farsighted in his outlook over the
political field with all that it implies in its relation to the
welfare, progress and prosperity of the province and dominion.

Mr. Mercier was married, in April, 1903, to Miss Jeanne
Frechette, a daughter of the late Dr. L. H. Frechette, C. M. G.
Their religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic church. They
occupy an attractive home at No. 408 St. Denis Street, and its
hospitality is greatly enjoyed by their many friends. They also
have a summer residence at Bellevue. Mr. Mercier is not a club
man in the usually accepted sense of the term, yet he belongs to
the Club Canadien and has social qualities that make and retain
friends.


ALFRED FOREST.

Natural ability and profound learning have placed Alfred Forest
among the well known young barristers of Montreal, where he
enjoys an extensive practice as a member of the firm of Le Blanc,
Brossard & Forest, who have offices at No. 35 St. James Street.
Well versed in the letter of the law, he is capable, earnest
and conscientious in the discharge of his duties and has been
entrusted with much important litigation since beginning his
career.

The Forest family were among those French emigrants who settled
in Acadia--now Nova Scotia--and the earliest record to be found
of them in Montreal is that of Madeline Forest, who was born in
1709 at d’Annapolis, Acadia. On the maternal side Alfred Forest
is descended from the Mousseau family, who are named among the
early settlers in the province of Quebec, the first mentioned
being Jacques Mousseau, who was married on January 25, 1694, at
Boucherville, to Marie-Ann Daunet, or Daunais.

Alfred Forest was born on the 8th of June, 1881, in the parish
of St. Patrick of Rawdon, in the county of Montcalm. His parents
were Urgel Forest, gentleman, and Eliza (Mousseau) Forest, a
niece of the late Hon. Alfred Mousseau, in 1882 prime minister
of the province of Quebec and later minister of public service
in the cabinet of Sir John A. Macdonald in 1884. In 1886, when
he died, he was judge of the superior court of Montreal and was
always a leading conservative.

In the acquirement of his education Alfred Forest attended
the Seminary of Joliette and then followed the philosophical
course at the Seminary of the St. Sulpice Fathers in Montreal,
graduating in 1905 with the degree of B. A. This was followed by
a law course at Laval University, where on December 21, 1907, he
obtained his degree of LL. L. with distinction and was admitted
to the bar on the 15th of January, 1908. In 1906 he was secretary
of the law students at Laval University and in 1907 was their
president. During his law course he received practical training
in the office of the Hon. Judge Paul Martineau and with the Hon.
P. E. Le Blanc, ex-speaker and ex-leader in the legislative
assembly, with whom he is now connected under the firm style
of Le Blanc, Brossard & Forest. After settling down to his
practice no long novitiate awaited him for he soon demonstrated
his ability to cope with the most intricate legal problems. His
reasoning is sound, his logic forceful and, being a student of
humanity as well as book lore, he easily perceives the vital
point in the most difficult legal tangles. As the years have
passed he has made himself felt in the legal fraternity. Moreover
he is now connected with some of the largest interests of the
city, this connection having led him to become a director of the
Modern Gas Light, Heat & Power Company, in which organization he
served in that capacity in 1912 and 1913.

On April 30, 1913, in Montreal, Mr. Forest was united in marriage
to Miss Hélène Jondreville, only daughter of Charles Jondreville,
formerly of Paris, France. Her parents came directly from that
city to Montreal in 1880. Of a distinguished family, Mrs.
Forest is a cultured young lady of rare attainments and many
accomplishments and will no doubt take a prominent part in the
social life of the city.

Mr. Forest has always been a profound student and is an expert
on political economy. He is a member of the conservative party
and was offered the candidature in the federal election of 1911
by the electors of the county of Montcalm but declined, as his
private interests practically forebade him to divert his time. He
is an adherent of the Catholic church and holds membership in the
Canadian Club, L’Alliance Française and the Conservative Club.
Mr. Forest is loyal to the interests of Montreal, of which he is
considerate and which he always tries to promote, proving thereby
his value as a citizen. He is esteemed and respected not only
among the legal fraternity but among the general public, who have
recognized his worth as man, citizen and lawyer.


WILLIAM PATERSON.

Personally popular, William Paterson left behind him a large
circle of friends at his death on the 23d of October, 1902.
For twenty years he had been engaged in the tailoring business
in Montreal, where he enjoyed a wide acquaintance. He was born
December 2, 1858, in Montreal, a son of James Paterson, a native
of Scotland, who passed his youthful days in that country. He
there married Miss Ellen Swanson and afterward left the land of
hills and heather for the new world. To him and his wife were
born seven children.

The father was a tailor by trade and it was under his direction
and guidance that William Paterson learned the business. He
pursued a public-school education and then entered his father’s
shop, devoting many decades to that pursuit. He was in business
on Notre Dame Street for two decades, having one of the well
equipped establishments of the city and gaining a liberal
patronage, which grew with the passing years and made his one of
the prosperous tailoring establishments of the city.

On the 18th of August, 1881, Mr. Paterson was united in marriage,
on Prince Edward Island, to Miss Arabella Le B. Graves, of Nova
Scotia, and they became the parents of four children: Leslie J.;
William Henry; Alice G., who is Mrs. James J. Aird; and Grace W.

Mr. Paterson voted with the conservative party but never took an
active interest in politics to the extent of seeking office as
a reward for party fealty. He was very prominent in fraternal
circles, serving as worshipful master of Elgin Lodge, A. F. &
A. M., and in 1898 he was elected district deputy grand master
of the Montreal district. He was past grand in the Independent
Order of Odd Fellows. He was also a life member of the Montreal
Amateur Athletic Association, and was one of the members of Knox
Presbyterian church, serving for several years on the board of
managers. His varied interests and activities of life maintained
an even balance and made him a forceful and influential factor in
support of the business, social and municipal affairs with which
he was connected.

[Illustration: WILLIAM PATERSON]


D. AUG. FONTAINE.

D. Aug. Fontaine is a well known lawyer and notary of Montreal,
being located at No. 244 St. Catherine Street East. Born in
the town of Marieville, Rouville county, February 2, 1872, he
comes of distinguished French-Canadian ancestry. The Rev. Damase
Limoges is an uncle and Morrainé Alphonsine Lemieux, his cousin.
The Rev. Damase Limoges was curate of the Catholic parish of
St. Jean Baptiste, in the county of Rouville, and our subject
was baptized in the Catholic church in that parish on the 4th
of February, 1872. His father was Felix Fontaine, a notary at
Marieville, and his mother Claire (Limoges) Fontaine. The former
was born at St. Charles sûr Richelieu or at St. Hyacinthe about
November 24, 1832. He studied in the Seminary of St. Hyacinthe
and served a legal clerkship at Marieville with the notary
Laberge. He afterwards established himself in that city as a
notary and there practiced for the rest of his life, being
recognized as a brilliant lawyer and gaining great success. He
was a member of the Chamber of Notaries for about twenty-five
years and when he died was vice president of this institution.
The mother was born at Terrebonne, about August 2, 1840, a
daughter of Pierre Limoges, a blacksmith, and Dame (Viger)
Limoges. The paternal grandfather of our subject was Felix
Fontaine, a teacher at St. Hyacinthe. The maternal grandfather,
Pierre Limoges, and Charlotte Luce (Viger) Limoges, his wife,
were the parents of twenty-three children, three daughters of
whom embraced holy orders, one of them having joined the Ladies
of the Sacred Heart at Montreal. One of their sons, Joseph
Magloire Limoges, is a curate at Sorel; another, Damase Limoges,
a curate at Beloeil and Farnham. A daughter, Claire Limoges, is
the mother of our subject.

Louis Fontaine received his education in the elementary school
at the Hospice of Ste. Croix at Marieville. He completed his
commercial and classical studies at the Seminary of Ste. Marie
de Monnoir at Marieville, having terminated his course in 1893.
He studied law at Laval University of Montreal from 1893 to 1897
and served a clerkship with Maître J. A. Dorval, of Montreal. He
received his notaryship at Quebec (with distinction) September
14, 1897. Mr. Fontaine then formed a partnership with his former
preceptor, Maître Dorval, under the firm name of Dorval &
Fontaine. Following, he associated himself with his classmate,
Oscar Desautels, continuing the partnership of Fontaine &
Desautels until 1899. At the end of that time he succeeded his
father, Felix Fontaine, as notary in Marieville. Taking up his
father’s practice, he there followed his profession for about ten
years and has been actively engaged in legal work in Montreal
since 1910. He was secretary-treasurer of the school commission
of Marieville and also was manager of the Marieville branch of a
private bank, known as “La Caisse d’Economie de Drummondville.”
He also was for some time collector of customs at Marieville. In
politics he was a strict liberal until 1909 and although he yet
gives his allegiance to that party, is a nationalist at the same
time.

On the 29th of July, 1896, Mr. Fontaine was married in the town
of Marieville, which is now annexed to Montreal and known as
the town of Ste. Cunegonde, to Miss Marie Eugenie Anna Vezina,
daughter of Alexandre and Emma (Chagnon) Vezina. The father is
engaged in the saddlery business. Mr. and Mrs. Fontaine have
three children: Marie Eugenie Claire Ubaldine, fourteen years of
age; Marie Marguerite Jeanne, twelve years of age; and Joseph
Alexandre Felix Auguste, aged eleven.

Mr. Fontaine is a member of the Roman Catholic and Apostolic
church. He is a musical composer of no mean ability and has
produced a pleasing repertoire of Canadian songs. He is the
author of the Canadian national song, which was written to the
words of Abbé A. Fournet, P. S. S. He was a prize winner in the
competition between Canadian poets in 1908 and the newspaper
La Presse paid him one hundred dollars, le prix de concours.
He is adviser to the singers of Notre Dame parish church of
Montreal. Mr. Fontaine deeply interests himself in all matters
pertaining to public affairs and is interested in the cause of
education and in arts and letters. He is a lawyer of ability, a
patriotic citizen and a man who stands for the higher things in
life and who finds great pleasure and satisfaction in following
his aesthetic tastes and in implanting his art ideas in others.
His talent along musical lines has been ably put to use in
elevating the musical standards of the city and in bringing more
closely before the public the idea of creating a home musical art
particularly and peculiarly Canadian.


ARTHUR SURVEYER.

In the field of engineering the name of Arthur Surveyer is widely
known. Liberal training and broad experience have brought him
to a prominent position and won for him the liberal patronage
that is accorded him as senior partner in the firm of Surveyer &
Frigon, consulting engineers of Montreal.

Mr. Surveyer was born in this city on the 17th of December,
1878, son of L. J. A. and M. A. Hectorine (Fabre) Surveyer, of
whom more extended mention will be found elsewhere in this book,
and supplemented his course of study in St. Mary’s College by
a course in L’Ecole Polytechnique in which he won the degrees
of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Applied Science and was
graduated as a civil engineer. He also pursued a special
post-graduate course at L’Ecole d’Industrie et des Mines du
Hainout, Mons, Belgium. His liberal training and broad experience
have made him one of the most efficient representatives of the
profession. From 1904 until May, 1911, he was in the service
of the Canadian department of public works and was engaged on
the survey, plans and estimates for the Georgian Bay Ship Canal
project and the survey of the Richelieu river for a twelve-foot
canal. He was supervising engineer during the construction of
the Port Arthur Dry Dock and reported on several hydro-electric
projects on the St. Lawrence river. In May, 1911, he left the
public service, in which he was connected with many important
works, to enter upon private practice, but has been retained as
consulting engineer by the public works department in a number
of important matters such as the preparation of Canada’s case
against the Chicago drainage canal and the report on the plans
submitted to the government by the Montreal Tunnel Company and by
the Montreal Central Terminal Company. Mr. Surveyer is a member
of the St. Lawrence River commission, is engineer for various
municipalities and is a member of a number of professional
societies and associations, including the Canadian Society of
Civil Engineers, the International Federation of Consulting
Engineers and the Hydrotechnic Society of France. Thoroughness
has characterized all that he has undertaken. That quality was
manifest in his preparation for his profession. He was a most
discriminating and earnest student and in his practice he has
lost sight of no detail of his work and at the same time has
given due prominence to its most important problems and features.
His entire professional career has been characterized by
continuous advancement.


J. F. OLIVAR ASSELIN.

J. F. Olivar Asselin was born at St. Hilarion, in Charlevoix
county, P. Q., November 8, 1874, a son of Rieule and Cedulie
(Tremblay) Asselin, the latter of whom is still living. He
emigrated to the United States with his parents in 1892, and in
Fall River, Massachusetts, J. F. Olivar Asselin was for two years
employed in the cotton mills.

Taking up journalism, he was at first connected with small French
weekly publications. He afterward became editor of La Tribune,
a Woonsocket, Rhode Island, daily, in which capacity he enjoyed
the friendship and confidence of the Hon. Mr. A. J. Pothier,
then lieutenant governor, and now governor of Rhode Island.
While practicing his profession in Woonsocket, Mr. Asselin was
principal of an evening public school in that city in 1897 and
1898.

He was the first man to enlist in the First Rhode Island
Volunteers, at the breaking out of the Spanish-American War.

Returning to Canada in 1900, he was successively connected
with the Montreal Herald, La Patrie, Le Journal, La
Presse, La Nationaliste and Le Devoir, with a two years
intermission--1901-1903--during which he was private secretary
to the Hon., now Sir Lomer Gouin, then minister of colonization
and public works of the province of Quebec. In 1902 he organized
the Nationalist league, being for several years president of the
Montreal branch. This indicates his deep interest in political
problems and to disseminate the principles in which he believed,
he founded La Nationaliste as the organ of the party, and for a
time was editor of that publication.

He has written much upon various subjects, his publications
including a series of political brochures with the title,
Feuilles de Combat. He is also the author of “A Quebec View
of Canadian Nationalism, an Essay by a Dyed-in-the-Wool
French-Canadian,” which was published in 1910.

He has been in business for four years as manager of the Credit
Metropolitain, one of the well known real-estate and financial
firms of Montreal.

In 1912, he was appointed by the federal government, a special
commissioner to French and Belgium, to study the question of
emigration from those countries to Canada. Mr. Asselin has made
a special study of municipal questions, and is well known as a
member of the National Municipal league, as well as a contributor
to the Municipal Journal. Mr. Asselin stood twice as a candidate
for parliamentary honors, without success, a result which, in one
case at least, was said to be due to his caustic spirit. In 1913
he was elected general president of the great St. Jean Baptiste
Society, the national society of the French.

In 1903 Mr. Asselin wedded Mlle. Alice Le Bouthillier of Montreal.


JOSEPH ASSELIN, M. D., C. M.

A specialist in the treatment of children’s diseases and
prominently known in connection with both hospital and private
practice, Dr. Joseph Asselin is one of the best known physicians
of Montreal. He was born in Joliette, Quebec, August 10, 1858, a
son of Eusebe and Elmire (Cornellier) Asselin. The father was a
merchant and proprietor of an important seigneury.

[Illustration: JOSEPH ASSELIN]

Dr. Asselin acquired his classical education in Joliette
College, and in further preparation for the profession which he
had determined to make his life work, he studied for two and
a half years in hospitals for children, in Paris, under the
direction of such eminent men as Parrot, Bouchert, Simon and
Descroizilles. Since entering upon active practice in Montreal
his advancement has not only been continuous but rapid, winning
speedy recognition for his ability. He has served as a director
of the town dispensary of the Sisters of Providence, Montreal, an
institution in which many thousands of children have been treated
each year. He has also been physician of the Orphelinat St.
Alexis at the corner of Mignonne and St. Denis Streets, Montreal.

On the 10th of October, 1883, Dr. Asselin was married to Miss
Albina Laurier, daughter of Dr. Louis Laurier, and their family
numbers five children. Dr. Asselin is a conservative in politics
and in religious faith a Roman Catholic. He holds membership with
the Independent Order of Foresters, but his chief interest is
that of his profession. He gives untiringly of his service for
the benefit of mankind and is highly esteemed not only by his
colleagues but by the community generally.


LOUIS THEOPHILE MARECHAL.

In a profession where advancement depends entirely upon
individual merit, talent and ability Louis Theophile Marechal has
attained distinguished rank. Firmly entrenched in the principles
of jurisprudence, he adds to his forensic knowledge and ability
the rare gift of eloquence, which has been an effective force
in winning for him a high position in his profession. He
represents one of the old and distinguished French families
in the Montreal district. His birth occurred at St. Henri, near
Montreal, on the 13th of March, 1864, and in the pursuit of his
education he spent some time as a student in Montreal College
and in St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College. He afterward entered Laval
University, where he pursued his law course until graduated with
the class of 1889. The same year he was called to the bar and has
since practiced as an advocate of Montreal. He was made a king’s
counsel in 1903 and was appointed a councillor of the Montreal
bar for the year 1908-9. His advancement in his profession has
been continuous. He accurately applies law principles, being
seldom, if ever, at fault in the citation of a fact or legal
precedent. He speaks French and English with equal fluency and
has been gifted with oratorical power that enables him to sway
his hearers with the force of his eloquence. Moreover, his
statements are convincing, and his legal utterances are always
based upon a thorough understanding of the legal principles
involved.

Mr. Marechal was united in marriage to Marie, the only daughter
of Hon. C. B. de Boucherville, but lost his wife in death
in 1902. His recognition of the duties and obligations of
citizenship is manifest in many tangible ways. In politics he
is a conservative of the pronounced type. He unsuccessfully
contested St. Mary’s (Montreal) for the house of commons in the
general election of 1904 and was again a candidate for the same
seat in 1908. It is a recognized fact that he is a leader in
party ranks and has done much to mold public thought and action.
His religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic church. The
spirit of progress dominates him in all things, especially in his
professional and public relations, and his position of leadership
is one to which his ability, public spirit and eloquence have
brought him.


L. GEORGES BADEAUX, M. D.

Specializing in the treatment of diseases of the eye, ear, nose
and throat, Dr. Badeaux has won a merited place in his particular
branch of the medical profession. A native of Three Rivers,
Quebec, he is descended from a very old and prominent family, the
ancestry being traced back to 1630, when Jacques Badeaux, who
was one of the first notaries in Canada, settled at Beauport.
In the direct line from Jacques Badeaux to the subject of this
review, there were four notaries. The great-great-grandfather,
Jean Baptiste Badeaux, who resided at Three Rivers, was also an
author and journalist and among his literary productions was
a journal relating to the American Invasion in 1775. His son,
Joseph Badeaux, also a notary, was a member of the legislature
from Three Rivers at Quebec during the Revolution of 1837.

Dr. Georges Badeaux, his son, and grandfather of Dr. L. Georges
Badeaux, was a widely known physician of Three Rivers, where he
engaged in practice for fifty-five years, or until the time of
his death. He was the father of two sons and several daughters.
One of his sons, Joseph Badeaux, was a physician at Three Rivers,
but is now deceased. His only son is Dr. Joseph M. Badeaux, now
engaged in the practice of medicine as successor to his father
and grandfather.

Louis Badeaux, father of Dr. Badeaux, of this review, has always
resided at Three Rivers, where for more than a quarter of a
century he was engaged in the wholesale dry-goods business. He is
now living retired.

Dr. L. Georges Badeaux was born March 21, 1886, in Three Rivers
and acquired his classical education in St. Joseph’s College in
his native place. In 1906 he began the study of medicine at Laval
University, Quebec, and after spending two years there he entered
Laval University at Montreal, from which he was graduated with
the degree of M. D. in 1910.

He then began to make special study of the eye, ear, nose and
throat at the Hotel Dieu, being assistant there in the treatment
of the diseases of those organs. For the past three years Dr.
Badeaux has been an assistant in practice to Dr. Albert Lassalle,
the noted eye and ear specialist. For two years Dr. Badeaux was
a professor in the demonstration of anatomy at Laval and he is a
member of La Société Médicale de Montreal.

On the 28th of April, 1913, Dr. Badeaux was married in Montreal
to Anita Fellay, a daughter of Ernest Fellay, of this city, and
they have one child, Louis Jacques.


JAMES CHALMERS CAMERON, M. D.

Dr. James Chalmers Cameron, medical practitioner and educator of
Montreal, was for thirty-eight years actively connected with the
profession in this city, enjoying not only the respect of all
with whom he came in contact but also the love and affectionate
regard of those to whom he ministered in his professional
capacity by reason of his ready sympathy and thorough
understanding as well as his medical and surgical skill. Kindness
and helpfulness might be termed the keynote of his character and
those qualities constantly found expression in all the relations
of his life. Ontario was proud to number him among her native
sons, for as he developed his latent powers and energies he
gained a wide reputation. He was born at Aultsville, Ontario,
January 18, 1852, being the eldest son of Rev. James Y. Cameron,
of the Presbyterian church, who after receiving his education in
Edinburgh, under Dr. Thomas Chalmers, was actively connected with
the ministry in Canada for a number of years, but later withdrew
from that field to devote his energies to teaching. He conducted
a private academy in Lundy’s Lane for several years and was
later in turn principal of the Drummondville (Ont.) high school,
the Williamstown (Ont.) high school and for a couple of years
lecturer in classics and mathematics at the Presbyterian College,
Montreal. Rev. J. Y. Cameron married Charlotte Ann Ault in 1851.
Both husband and wife were descended from United Empire Loyalist
families, who had sacrificed their homes in the American colonies
to remain true to the British flag and settled in Glengarry.

Dr. Cameron began studying in the old Upper Canada College,
Toronto, and by reason of his aptitude and close application
became head boy of the school in 1870. He next entered McGill,
where in four years he became first prize man in medicine,
graduating in 1874. The succeeding three years were spent
in connection with the General Hospital in Montreal, but in
1877 he severed his connection with that institution and in
April of the same year sailed for Dublin, Ireland. He pursued
post-graduate courses in medicine and surgery in Berlin, Paris
and Vienna and thus he added greatly to his knowledge through
acquaintance with the methods of practice of the most eminent
physicians and surgeons of the old world. The chair of obstetrics
at Bishop’s College was offered to Dr. Cameron when he returned
from his first post-graduate course at the Rotunda and was at
once accepted. He remained there until the chair at McGill was
offered him, thus giving him wider opportunities. He became
professor of obstetrics and infants’ diseases at his alma mater,
holding that chair for twenty-six years and contributing in large
measure to the success of the medical department. He believed
always in raising the standards of medical education because of
his clear recognition of the responsibilities devolving upon the
practitioner and his labors and teachings were an inspiration to
all who came under his instruction. While professor at McGill
Dr. Cameron became associated with the old University Lying-in
Hospital, which later became the Montreal Maternity Hospital, and
Dr. Cameron’s work in behalf of that institution resulted largely
in bringing it to its present standard of modern excellence. It
was not only as practitioner and educator that Dr. Cameron became
widely known but also as a contributor to various text-books on
medicine, this gaining him a wide reputation. His treatises were
written in English, French and German. He was well known in the
United States and was elected an honorary fellow of the American
Gynecological Society, besides being a member of many other
leading societies connected with the medical profession. He was
a member of the British Medical Association and the Edinburgh
Obstetrical Society. For many years he was chief medical examiner
for the Equitable Life Assurance Society in Montreal. He gained
eminence as a lecturer on subjects of literary interest, his
addresses on Robert Louis Stevenson and Robert Burns being
especially well received.

Dr. Cameron was married in 1880 to Miss Elizabeth Jane Dakers,
daughter of James Dakers, who was for thirty-five years secretary
and manager of the Montreal Telegraph Company. Mrs. Cameron
survives with one son, Dakers Cameron, of Montreal. Dr. Cameron
is also survived by his mother and two brothers, Dr. John W.
Cameron, of Buffalo, New York, and Wellington Ault Cameron,
barrister, of Toronto.

The remarkable energy of Dr. Cameron found expression along
other lines. He was for a time assistant surgeon of the Sixth
Fusiliers. His name was on the membership role of the St. James
and University Clubs and in 1874 he was initiated into Royal
Albert Lodge, A. F. & A. M. Subsequently he became the principal
mover in establishing the University Lodge, A. F. & A. M., which
has rapidly grown in influence and includes many university
graduates and students of McGill. He was the first worshipful
master of this lodge and also an officer of the grand lodge of
Quebec. In Masonry he attained the thirty-second degree. As
specially appointed medical examiner for the German army, Dr.
Cameron held a position unique in Canadian history, an honor
which he valued very highly. He was also a member of the Teutonia
Club. Dr. Cameron died suddenly on March 16, 1912. The funeral
services were conducted according to Masonic rites, the religious
ceremony taking place at St. Paul’s Presbyterian church, of which
he was a member. One of the local papers said: “His every patient
became his friend and his death is a loss to thousands.” The news
of his demise, indeed, carried a sense of personal bereavement
into many homes where his eminent skill and kindly ministrations
had made him loved and honored. In all of his professional
relations he approached the ideal because of his comprehensive
knowledge and still more because of his deep human interest and
sympathy. He regarded it as a sacred privilege and obligation to
discharge the duties of his profession and his life embodied the
thought of the philosopher who has said: “Not the good that comes
to us but the good that comes to the world through us is the
measure of our success.”


JOSEPH VENNE.

On the list of architects who have had to do with the building
of Montreal appears the name of Joseph Venne, senior member of
the well known firm of Venne & Labelle, and those who are to
any extent familiar with the building operations that have been
carried on here in the last third of a century know that he has
figured prominently as one whose work combines the indispensable
qualities of utility, comfort, convenience and adornment. He was
born in Montreal, June 14, 1859, was educated in the Christian
Brothers school of this city and, being a diligent student,
creditably passed his examinations.

[Illustration: JOSEPH VENNE]

After putting aside his text-books he entered the office of
Perrault & Mesnard, architects, and for many years was their
head clerk. The high regard entertained for him by his employers
is indicated in the advancement that came to him from time to
time and his eventual admission to the firm under the style
of Perrault, Mesnard & Venne, which partnership continued for
several years when it was dissolved. Since 1912 he has been
associated with Louis Labelle.

In 1882 Mr. Venne was united in marriage to Miss P. Boucher, a
daughter of S. Boucher, Esq., of Montreal. A Roman Catholic in
religious faith, he belongs to the St. Jean Baptiste Society
and has been president of the Sacred Heart section. In politics
he is a liberal. Along professional lines his connection is
with the provincial Association of Architects, and through his
identification with that organization he keeps in touch with the
advanced work and progressive ideas of representative men of the
profession and also contributes from his experience and wisdom to
its discussions and conferences.


NIEL H. ASSELIN.

The name of Niel H. Asselin has become a familiar one in
commercial circles in Montreal, where he occupies the important
and responsible position of general agent of the Singer Sewing
Machine Company for eastern Canada. He was born in 1845 at
St. Michel, Bellechase county, in the province of Quebec, and
supplemented his preliminary education by study in the St. Michel
Commercial College. He reached what may be termed his métier by
a somewhat circuitous course. He started with the Grand Trunk
Railway in the position of operator and stationmaster at Hadlow
in 1863 and left that position to accept one in the office
of the prothonotary for the Quebec district, in which capacity
he served for six years. He then resigned to travel in the boot
and shoe trade, and in 1874 came into active connection with the
sewing machine business as representative of the Howe Sewing
Machine Company. When this went into liquidation he made his way
to the United States and joined the sales force of the Wheeler &
Wilson & Domestic Sewing Machine Company.

Upon returning to Canada in 1884, Mr. Asselin entered the employ
of the White Sewing Machine Company as its representative in
Quebec, the maritime provinces and Newfoundland. In 1891 he
joined the Singer Sewing Machine Company at Quebec as its manager
for half of the province and a part of New Brunswick. In 1903 he
was advanced to the position of superintendent and in 1905 became
general agent for all eastern Canada, comprising Quebec, New
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland,
with headquarters in the Board of Trade building in Montreal.
Here with an office staff of fifteen under his control and
twenty-eight regular shops, thirty-two contract shops and four
hundred outside employes under his jurisdiction, he may well be
said to hold the blue ribbon position in sewing machine circles
in Canada.

Mr. Asselin has a fluent command of both English and French
and is a cultured, genial gentleman, whose popularity arises
from attractive social qualities as well as pronounced business
ability.


ROBERT T. MULLIN.

Robert T. Mullin, one of the able and successful advocates in
Montreal, is a representative of a well known Canadian family
whose members settled in the Dominion about 1810. He was born
in 1870 at Bryson, province of Quebec, and after completing his
preliminary education, entered McGill University at Montreal. He
was graduated from the law department in 1896, with first rank
honors, and he was also a gold medallist in Roman law in his
graduating year. While at McGill, Mr. Mullin was a member of the
Literary and Debating Society and was also editor in chief of the
“McGill Fortnightly.” He was called to the bar in 1900, beginning
the practice of his profession in this city in partnership with
Colonel J. P. Cooke, who later became registrar, the firm name
being Cooke & Mullin. This connection was productive of mutually
beneficial results and was maintained until 1910 when it was
dissolved. Mr. Mullin later was a member of the firm of De
Boucherville, Mullin & Mathieu, but since 1912 he has been alone
in practice. Mr. Mullin is at all times a strong and forceful
practitioner, well versed in underlying legal principles and
possessed of the insight, keenness of perception and powers of
deduction necessary to make his knowledge effective. He controls
a large and important clientage and is very successful in its
conduct, standing today in the front ranks of reliable and
competent advocates in Montreal.

At the inception of the Cobalt mining activities, Mr. Mullin
became interested in various mining properties, and he has had
considerable success along this line of industry and has played a
conspicuous part in the development of various mining properties.
His operations have been so successful that his judgment has been
profitably followed by others in the mining world.

Mr. Mullin is connected with the Masonic fraternity and with the
Benevolent Protective Order of Elks and is active in the affairs
of the local branches of both organizations. Mr. Mullin has done
valiant service in the ranks of the liberal party. He has always
been an enthusiastic supporter of Sir Wilfrid Laurier and ready
to respond to his party’s call at any time. In the city where
practically his entire active life has been passed his signal
ability has gained him the respect of his professional brethren,
while his constant courtesy and sterling qualities of character
command everywhere high honor and regard.


J. A. ST. JULIEN, K. C.

J. A. St. Julien, K. C., was a member of the prominent and well
known law firm of St. Julien & Theberge, having offices at No. 60
Notre Dame Street East. During the years of his connection with
the Montreal bar he attained an enviable place in the practice of
his profession.

Mr. St. Julien was a native son of Montreal, born in 1855.
Liberal educational opportunities qualified him for important
professional service. His early studies were supplemented by a
course in the Montreal College, Laval University and in McGill
University and from the last named institution he was graduated
with the degree of B. C. L. He entered upon the active practice
of his chosen profession in 1882 and was continuously before
the courts from that time until his death. His ability was
pronounced for he was ever a careful and discriminating student
of the principles of law and was accurate in the application
thereof. His devotion to his clients’ interests was proverbial,
yet he never forgot that he owed a still higher allegiance to
the majesty of the law, and neither the zeal of an advocate nor
the pleasure of success permitted him to disregard this. His
political allegiance was given to the liberal party, but he was
never an aspirant for office, preferring to concentrate his
energies upon his professional interests and perform his public
service as a private citizen. His death occurred May 4, 1914, and
was deeply regretted by all who knew him. In his demise Montreal
lost one of her foremost representatives of the legal profession
and a citizen who was always loyal to his city.


HON. CHARLES LAURENDEAU.

Hon. Charles Laurendeau, chief city attorney, the head of the
city’s legal department, is one of the able members of the legal
profession in Montreal. The Hon. Mr. Laurendeau belongs to one of
the oldest families in the province of Quebec. He was born at St.
Barthelemy, in 1865, and was educated at L’Assomption College and
Laval University. In the latter institution he pursued the study
of law and was graduated with the LL. B. degree in 1892.

In the same year he began practice as an advocate, and rapidly
won a foremost position among his colleagues until his ability
and power to successfully cope with the intricate and involved
problems of jurisprudence became widely known.

He was at one time associated in practice with Justice Fortin,
subsequently becoming the head of the law firm of Laurendeau,
Pelletier & Pelletier. He was created king’s counsel in 1906, and
on July 6, 1910, was honored with the appointment of puisne judge
of the superior court of the province of Quebec.

Advancement at the bar is proverbially slow and yet he has
progressed step by step, putting his knowledge to the practical
test in his application of legal principles to the points at
issue, in which connection he is seldom at fault.

Judge Laurendeau resigned his position on the bench, to accept
the far more arduous one of city attorney, to which he was
appointed October 26, 1913.

Judge Laurendeau is married to Miss Georgina Beaudet, the
eldest daughter of G. J. Beaudet, of Coteau-du-Lac, P. Q. Judge
and Mrs. Laurendeau hold membership in the Catholic church.
The hospitality of their attractive home is enjoyed by many
friends, and Judge Laurendeau is well known and honored among his
professional colleagues by reason of his strict conformity to the
highest ethics of the law.


WILL. H. WHYTE.

Will. H. Whyte, prominent and successful in the insurance
profession and an eminent representative of Masonry in Canada,
was born in Montreal, March 15, 1850, the eldest son of the late
James Whyte of “The Greenlaw,” Paisley, Scotland, and Annie Gray
(Shanks) Whyte, whose girlhood home was at Berwick on Tweed.

Will. H. Whyte became a student at the Montreal Collegiate school
and entered business circles in connection with the wholesale
dry-goods house of Ogilvy & Company. The steps in his orderly
progression are easily discernible and his course has been marked
by a continuous advance along lines of constantly broadening
activity and usefulness. For six years he was business manager
of the Montreal Herald when the Hon. Peter Mitchell was the
principal owner and president. Since 1897 his attention has been
given to the insurance business, and his constantly expanding
powers have brought him into prominent relations with the
profession. He is now secretary-treasurer and underwriter of the
Royal Marine Insurance Company of Montreal.

His business connections alone would entitle him to distinction,
yet he has, perhaps, an even wider acquaintance through his
Masonic associations. Indeed, few Canadian Masons are better
known throughout the Masonic world. He was initiated in Prince
Consort Lodge, No. 52, and was installed worshipful master in
December, 1876. He was elected to a number of important offices
in the grand lodge and became grand secretary of the grand lodge
of Quebec in January, 1902. He has passed through the various
branches of Royal Arch Masonry and was grand first principal
Z. of the grand chapter of Quebec, holding the office for the
years 1888-9. He has held the office of grand scribe E. from
1893. He received the Cryptic degrees and has been illustrious
grand master of the grand council of the maritime provinces.
He was knighted as a Knight Templar in 1882 and was supreme
grand master in 1895 and 1896 of the sovereign great priory of
Canada and has been grand chancellor since 1897. He was the
second Knight Templar to be elected an honorary member of the
grand encampment, K. T., of the United States at the triennial
conclave in Chicago in 1910. He is a member of the Ancient Arabic
Order of the Mystic Shrine and of the Royal Order of Scotland.
The many important offices he has held, as well as his reviews
and historical sketches have brought him very prominently before
the Masonic craft for many years.

In former years Mr. Whyte was an active athlete and supporter
of amateur athletics. He was one of the founders and is the
historian of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association. He has
also served as one of its directors. He was likewise president
of the Montreal Lacrosse Club in 1885-6; was vice president and
secretary for six years of the Montreal Snowshoe Club; is one
of the oldest members of the Dominion Commercial Travelers’
Association; is a life member of the Caledonian Society; a member
of St. Andrew’s Society; and of the Board of Trade of Montreal.

On the 3d of January, 1882, Mr. Whyte married Almeda Garratt, a
daughter of the late Captain Robert Nelson Garratt of Kingston,
Ontario, a representative of one of the families longest
connected with the history of the city of Kingston. They are
members of the American Presbyterian church, and they delight
in dispensing the hospitality of their home at No. 4290 Western
Avenue, Westmount.


JAMES PATON.

James Paton, a well known citizen of Montreal, died November 17,
1905. He was born in this city in 1853, a son of Laird Paton, a
distinguished citizen of Montreal, who was at the head of the
firm of Laird Paton & Sons, contractors.

It was to that business that James Paton turned his attention,
when his school days were over, joining his father and acquainting
himself with every phase of the business in which he was destined
to win substantial success. The firm of Laird Paton & Sons
took high rank among the contractors of the city and erected
many of Montreal’s best buildings. James Paton was capable of
watching and directing the slightest detail as well as the most
important features of his business and could turn with equal
energy and enthusiasm to sporting events. In a word, he had the
power of concentrating his entire energy upon the interest of
the moment and it was this that gained him prominence along each
line. Whenever the name of James Paton was seen in connection
with any sport, it was a guarantee that it was clean and honest
and he rendered great service to the city in the promotion of
amateur sports. He belonged to the Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association and was one of the moving spirits in the development
of that organization and in the efforts which eventually
lead to the securing of the present handsome quarters of the
organization on Peel Street. He was also instrumental in securing
the establishment of its swimming-pool and he belonged to the
Montreal and Caledonian Curling Clubs, was always ready to take
an active part in the water carnivals, and was a favorite of
the membership in the different organizations with which he was
identified. He found pleasure and manifested marked proficiency
in ice-boating and tobogganing. He loved sailing and seemed a
born sailor, displaying great ability in managing his craft and
taking part in many sailing contests of note.

[Illustration: JAMES PATON]

Mr. Paton married Miss Annie M. Thompson of Ottawa and they had
four children. He was but fifty-two years of age at the time
of his death. He possessed in a large measure the quality of
camaraderie and his friends were legion so that his death was
deeply regretted outside the immediate family circle.


RICHEMONT LE MOYNE DE MARTIGNY.

Richemont Le Moyne de Martigny, for many years engaged in the
real-estate business in Montreal, was born at Varennes, Quebec,
September 25, 1852, and is descended from a distinguished French
family that was founded in Canada in 1654. Of the three brothers
who first crossed the Atlantic to the new world Charles became
governor of Montreal, Jacques established himself at Varennes and
was a farmer and active participant in the early Indian wars,
while Pierre proceeded westward to what is now Detroit.

Prime de Martigny, father of Richemont Le Moyne de Martigny, was
a farmer at Varennes, well known in both military and official
connections, serving as colonel of the militia and mayor of
Varennes. He married Charlotte Perreault, of Quebec, and their
sons were: Prime, a physician of Omaha, Nebraska; Richemont
Le Moyne; and Alexander, chief engineer of the Ottawa River
Navigation Company.

The second son was educated at L’Assomption College and studied
law with La Coste & Globesky, of Montreal. In 1881 he was
admitted to the bar and practiced his profession until 1885, when
he devoted himself to the real-estate business, in which he has
since been successfully engaged. It is generally conceded that
he is one of the best informed men on real estate in the entire
province. He is an expert valuator of property, and his knowledge
of the real-estate market embraces every important piece of
property that is offered for sale. A spirit of enterprise
characterizes all of his business dealings and, guiding his
activities, has brought him to a position of distinction and
success.

In 1880 Mr. de Martigny was married, in L’Assomption, to Marie
Louise Levesque, and they have one daughter, Jacqueline. Mr. de
Martigny is a conservative in politics and in religious faith is
a Roman Catholic. He has ever been fond of outdoor life, is an
enthusiastic fisherman and spends much of his leisure in engaging
in that sport.


HON. NAPOLEON CHARBONNEAU, K. C.

Hon. Napoleon Charbonneau, K. C., and a puisne judge of the
superior court of the province of Quebec since 1903, was
admitted to the bar in 1879 and in the intervening period has
made continuous progress in his profession until he is today one
of the leaders of the provincial bar. He was born at Cote des
Neiges, Quebec, on the 12th of February, 1853, his parents being
Augustin and Julienne (Dufort) Charbonneau. In the acquirement
of his education he attended Montreal College and after thorough
preparation for the bar was admitted to practice in 1879 and
entered upon the active work of the profession in Montreal. At
one time he was a partner of the late Senator Trudel and of
the Hon. L. O. Taillon. He has successfully pleaded before the
judicial committee of the privy council, and on the 11th of
March, 1903, he was made a puisne judge, remaining continuously
upon the bench to the present time. The Montreal Standard speaks
of him as “a judge of uncommon perspicacity, thoroughly sound in
his law and swift in his perception of relevant facts and issues;
there are not two opinions as to his ability.”

Judge Charbonneau’s public activity aside from his service on the
bench has been partially in connection with political affairs.
He unsuccessfully contested Jacques Cartier for the house of
commons in the liberal interest at the general election in 1887
and in 1895 was elected at the by-election. He was appointed a
royal commissioner for the province to inquire into the charges
against the Hon. A. Turgeon in 1907. His attention, however, has
largely been confined to his professional duties, and he has
gained eminence in a calling where advancement depends entirely
upon individual merit. Endowed by nature with strong intellectual
power, he has so directed his reading and his activities as to
have won place among the eminent judges of the province.

The present wife of Judge Charbonneau was Mlle. Lemieux. His
religious belief is that of the Roman Catholic church. He
maintains his residence in Montreal at No. 36 Simpson Street.
His summer outing affords him opportunity for cruising, and he
and his family are enthusiastic over this form of recreation.
His launch, the Mouette, is much enjoyed. His circle of friends
is select rather than large, and he is often found in those
gatherings where intelligent men are met in the discussion of
vital and significant themes and problems.


GEORGES ALPHONSE MONETTE.

Foremost in his profession in Montreal is Georges Alphonse
Monette, architect, whose skill finds tangible expression in
some of the most beautiful and substantial structures of the
city. A native of Montreal, he is a son of Georges and Domithilde
(Beauchamp) Monette. The father, now deceased, was a contractor.
The mother is still a resident of this city.

G. A. Monette acquired his early education in the Christian
Brothers school and began the study of architecture in the
office of A. F. Dunlop, a well known architect, with whom he
remained for five years. He received a diploma from the Associate
Architects of the Province of Quebec in 1892 and soon afterward
went to Boston, Massachusetts, where he studied in the offices of
a number of the leading architects of that city. He then returned
to Montreal and entered the office of Perrault & Mesnard,
architects, subsequently engaging in business for himself about
a score of years ago. While he has a large general practice, he
specializes in public buildings work and substantial evidence
of his ability may be seen in the La Patrie building, the large
block of H. P. Labelle & Company, Ltd., the dental department
building of Laval University, the St. Leo Catholic church of
Westmount and a number of school and convent buildings. That he
ranks notably high in his profession is indicated by the fact
that he has been admitted to membership in various important
organizations, including the Province of Quebec Association of
Architects and the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, while
of the Architectural League of New York he is an associate member.

Mr. Monette was married in Montreal to Maria Versailles, a
daughter of Nazaire Versailles of Montreal, and they have the
following children: Antonio, Cecile, Gertrude, Marcal, Adrienne,
Eugene and Hector. Mr. Monette is a member of the Club St.
Denis and has attractive social qualities, which have won
him popularity and prominence in a friendship circle that is
extensive. His interests, however, have been concentrated upon
his profession with the result that his position is now one of
recognized leadership.


MAXIME DAOUST.

There is probably no other line of business that is a factor in a
city’s growth and development equal to the real-estate business,
when conducted by men who are reliable and who aim to develop
only properties of merit and value. Included among such men
is Maxime Daoust, president and founder of the Daoust Realty,
Limited.

Mr. Daoust was born in St. Clet, P. Q., November 10, 1873, son of
Leon and Olive Daoust. When he was six years of age his parents
removed to Labelle county and there Mr. Daoust received his
education. In 1893 he went to the United States and was employed
in various places in New England until February, 1898, when he
enlisted as a volunteer in the United States marines for service
in the Spanish-American war, which then seemed imminent.

He was among the first troops landed on Cuban soil at Guantanamo,
June 10, 1898, participating in the fight at that place. He
remained in Cuba until August, when he was detailed as one of the
guard to accompany the Spanish prisoners, survivors of Cervera’s
fleet, to Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

Mr. Daoust remained in the United States service until the
expiration of his enlistment, after which he returned to Canada
in 1900 and for some time was employed at the trade of brass
molder in Montreal. He then entered the fire and life insurance
field as an agent, at which he achieved success so that in
1904 he had accumulated capital sufficient to engage in the
real-estate business in a small way. He formed a partnership with
the late Joseph Charrau under firm name of Charrau & Daoust,
and the first subdivision handled by them was Frontenac Park,
owned by the estate of Henry Hogan, the land being then an open
field. This tract comprised twenty-five hundred lots, and today
this property is populated by over five hundred families and its
location is now the geographical center of Montreal. The firm
quickly won a reputation for straight and honorable dealings
so that when their subsequent subdivisions, Estate Viau and
Christian Brothers, were placed on the market, it was not the
merits of the properties alone that made them in demand.

Mr. Daoust later purchased the interest of Mr. Charrau and in
1908 the Daoust Realty, Limited, was formed with a capital of
one hundred thousand dollars, Mr. Daoust becoming president and
manager. Up to that time he had financed his own properties,
but he realized that to carry out his huge land schemes he
would require more capital, hence his company. Since then the
Daoust Realty, Limited, has done some of the largest real-estate
business in the city. In June, 1913, the capital of the company
was increased to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

They are sole agents for Mount Lasalle Park, Mount Lasalle Annex
Park and Champlain Park in Rosemount ward; Bernard Terrace,
Bernard Plateau and Alliance Park in Longue-Pointe ward; St.
Helen’s Park and Coteau Rouge Park, near town of Montreal
South; St. Lambert Heights, near town of St. Lambert; Chambly
Basin Park, Chambly, P. Q.; and Montreal East Extension,
Pointe-aux-Trembles, these properties representing a carrying
value of over three million dollars. Mr. Daoust is vice president
of the Mackay Realty, Limited, a member of the Board of Trade and
the Chambre de Commerce.

In politics he is a liberal and in religion a Roman Catholic.
He is fond of athletic sports and is president of the National
Sporting Club, Limited. Mr. Daoust was one of the first men in
Canada to become interested in aviation and has spent thousands
for furthering that science. He has built four machines, the
designing and building being done in this district. The first
two were failures, but notwithstanding the large expense he
persevered until his courage and enthusiasm were rewarded by his
machines making successful flights.

On June 20, 1905, Mr. Daoust was married to Amelia Clement,
daughter of Samuel Clement of Pointe Claire, Quebec, and they
have two children, Farnand and Jule-Berthe.

Mr. Daoust is a self-made man in the fullest sense of that term.
He possesses many admirable qualities and a character of sterling
worth. He is devoted to his home and family, is faithful in
friendship and loyal to every interest to which he gives his
support. He possesses marked business enterprise with ability to
recognize opportunities that others pass heedlessly by and early
grasped the eternal truth that industry wins, making industry
the beacon light of his life, and has thereby entered into most
important business relations. He has accomplished important and
far-reaching results and has contributed in no small degree to
the expansion and material growth of the community.


FRANCOIS GEORGE CREPEAU.

François George Crépeau, a representative of the notarial
profession in active practice in Montreal since 1890, was born
at St. Henri de Mascouche, Quebec, on the 25th of May, 1865, a
son of Charles and Mathilde (Magnan) Crépeau. The ancestry of
the family can be traced back to Paul Crépeau of Laverdure. The
next in the line of descendants was T. Maurice Crépeau, major of
militia, who married Marie Andet of St. Jean, isle of Orleans.
Their son, Charles Crépeau, wedded Agnes Chartrand and their son,
Charles Crépeau was married in 1765 to Françoise Gravel near
Quebec. They were the parents of Joseph Crépeau, grandfather
of François George Crépeau. He married Madeleine Allard, and
they were parents of Charles Crépeau, father of our subject. The
family were largely agriculturists and the old homestead which
has been occupied by the family for over one hundred and fifty
years, is now owned by Octave Crépeau, a brother of François
George Crépeau. The father’s family numbered fifteen children,
four of whom passed away, while six sons and five daughters are
yet living and all are well and strong.

[Illustration: FRANCOIS G. CREPEAU]

After the ordinary school training François George Crépeau
attended an academy and followed his academical course by study
in l’Assomption College. He won his degree at the College of
Montreal and Laval University, being graduated LL. B. in 1890.
Having studied law and prepared for the notarial profession, he
entered upon active practice, in which he has since continued,
his ability bringing him to his present position as a prominent
representative of his chosen calling. His practice is very
extensive and in addition he has other business investments,
being a director of the Funeral Expense Society and of La Cie
Mutuelle d’Immeubles, Ltee.

On the 25th of May, 1891, Mr. Crépeau was married to Miss Marie
Louise Lecours, a daughter of Théophile and Marie (Prefontaine)
Lecours, representatives of one of the old French families of
the province. The children of this marriage are: George Henry,
a photographer, who married Juliette Robillard; Joseph Roumald;
M. Jeanne; M. Juliette; M. Emérentienne; and J. C. Bernard. The
religious faith of the family is that of the Roman Catholic
church. Mr. Crépeau holds membership with the Canadian Order
of Foresters, and the Independent Order of Foresters. He also
belongs to the Société Des Artisans, to the Knights of Columbus,
to l’Union St. Pierre and l’Alliance Nationale.


ARSENE S. BROSSEAU, D. D. S.

Comprehensive knowledge of the science of dentistry, skill in its
mechanical phases and close adherence at all times to the highest
standards of the profession has made Dr. Arsene S. Brosseau one
of the leading and best known dentists of Montreal. Moreover, he
is one of the oldest, if not the oldest, in length of practice in
the city. He was born January 22, 1861, in L’Acadie, P. Q., a son
of Jacques and Catherine (Demerce) Brosseau. The parents were for
many years highly esteemed residents of Montreal, but both are
now deceased.

Dr. Brosseau acquired his early education in the Christian
Brothers school in Montreal and then took up the study of
dentistry at Laval University, being graduated in 1883. He began
practice in the office of Dr. John C. Nichols, with whom he
remained for five years, and later he spent three years in the
office of Dr. Edmund Mathieu. Later he began practice on his
own account and has since continued alone. He has continuously
promoted his knowledge through broad reading and investigation,
keeping in touch with the advanced thought of the profession. His
practice comes to him from the best class of Montreal citizens
and is very extensive. Splendidly equipped is his office, showing
all the latest appliances known to modern dentistry, and back
of all his success is the sound judgment which enables him to
understand the specific needs of each case and to apply the
necessary corrective. Reputation has placed him in a foremost
position in the ranks of the dental fraternity in this city.

Dr. Brosseau was married in Montreal, in 1883, to Miss Fannie
Robert, a daughter of Julien Robert, and they had two children:
Lotta, who died in early life; and Leo. In club circles Dr.
Brosseau is known as a popular member of the Club St. Denis and
Club Canadien. He belongs to the Roman Catholic church and is
a liberal in politics. In matters of moment to the individual
and to the community he maintains the same spirit of progress
which characterizes him in his professional activity, yet he has
always made his profession his chief interest and has obtained
a splendid practice. He has ever attended strictly to the
duties incumbent upon him in that connection, being possessed
of excellent business qualifications and a most attractive
personality, which has been a large asset in his success. His is
a splendid type of manhood and citizenship, and his record is a
credit to the profession.


JOSEPH AUGUSTIN ODILON LA BADIE.

Joseph Augustin Odilon La Badie, one of the best known notaries
of Montreal, was born May 12, 1852, at the family home on St.
James Street, between Roy Street and David Lane. His grandfather,
Joseph Augustin La Badie, also a native of Montreal, studied with
Jean Marie Cadieux, a notary, and for many years had his office
and also his home in the building which stood at the corner of
St. Lambert Hill and St. James Street, now the corner of St.
Laurence boulevard and St. James Street. He was devoted to his
profession, spending the hours from 9 a. m. to 6 p. m. in his
office. He was asked to become mayor of Montreal but declined
the honor. He served as colonel of a volunteer regiment and was
a warden of Notre Dame Cathedral. He married Louise Grenier,
who was also of an old Montreal family, and to them were born
eighteen children. Joseph A. La Badie passed away in 1885, at the
advanced age of eighty years.

Joseph Evariste Odilon La Badie, father of J. A. O. La Badie
of this review, was born in the old home at the corner of
St. Lambert Hill and St. James Street. He attended Montreal
College and in his father’s office prepared for the practice of
the notarial profession. In the home in which he was born he
continued to practice with his father until 1864, when the old
building was razed and a new one erected on the same site. In the
latter he continued to practice his profession until his death,
which occurred in August, 1908, when he was eighty years of age.
He was chief warden of Notre Dame Cathedral and was a prominent
and influential citizen. He married Sophie Jeannotte, a native of
Montreal, and they lived to celebrate their golden wedding. Mrs.
La Badie passed away April 13, 1906. They had a family of seven
children: Joseph Augustin Odilon; Adolphe, a notary of Montreal;
Felix, a practicing physician of Montreal; Joseph Esdras, a real
estate dealer of New York city; Flora, who died in childhood;
Sophie, the deceased wife of Louis Belanger, a lawyer; and
Alphonse, a broker, who died in Montreal in 1908.

Joseph Augustin Odilon La Badie pursued his education in the
normal school and in the Jesuit College, from which he was
graduated. In 1874 he won the degree of B. C. L. from McGill
University and on the 8th of May, of that year, he was made a
notary at Laval University in Quebec. He then began practice with
his father and grandfather and has ever maintained high standing
in his profession.

Mr. La Badie has been an extensive traveler. As a young man he
engaged in ranching in Colorado and during his sojourn in the
west learned much of that section of the United States. He has
also made many trips abroad. He is a great lover of nature and a
student of botany. The library which he has collected contains
more than six thousand volumes, many of which are rare editions.
This is an indication of his cultured taste and wide interest in
literary matters. His summer home for the past twenty-one years
has been at Upper St. Lambert, where he has two fine farms and
makes a specialty of cheese making. Mr. La Badie is very fond of
hunting, a recreation in which he indulges every year.

Though over three score years of age, Mr. La Badie is of
magnificent physique, his muscles as hard as iron, and he has
the appearance of a man twenty years his junior. In his office
is a long table, four feet wide, over which he can jump without
touching it with his hands and he can lift a weight of one
hundred and eighty-seven pounds with one hand. His interests have
largely covered those things which are essential and valuable
elements in life. He has been a student of many questions
of public moment and has filled some offices, being now a
commissioner of the superior court and a justice of the peace.
For one hundred and ten years the La Badies of four generations
have been notaries at the present location. The great-grandfather
of Joseph A. O. La Badie died at the home where Joseph E. O. La
Badie was born. The family is, indeed, one of the oldest and most
prominent in Montreal.

Mr. La Badie is not a club man. His interest centers in his home
and his family, which he prefers to club life. On the 7th of
October, 1877, he married Aurelia de Lompré, of an old Montreal
family, and to them have been born seventeen children: Raoul, a
civic employe; Odilon, who is in his father’s office; Paul, a
notary; Florida, deceased; Jeanne; Germaine; Marie Antoinette;
Camile; Alice; Leo; Amanda; Adolphe; Alice; Emile; Pauline;
Gabriel; and Cecile.


ARTHUR GIBEAULT, B. A., LL. L.

Arthur Gibeault, a Laval man, active in the practice of law since
January, 1902, has been retained as counsel for the defense or
prosecution in many notable cases heard in the Montreal courts.
He was born on the 26th of February, 1880, a son of Arthur
Alphonse and Elizabeth Emma (Morrissette) Gibeault. The father
was for seven years provincial chief ranger of the Catholic Order
of Foresters. The son was a student in Montreal College for eight
years, from September, 1890, until July, 1898. In September of
the latter year he entered Laval University, where he remained
until December 21, 1901, winning the Bachelor of Arts and LL. L.
degrees. He was admitted as a lawyer and barrister to the bar of
Quebec on the 17th of January, 1902, and has since been actively
connected with the profession, in which he has made steady
advancement, already having won a place of equal rank with many
an older representative of the bar. He was attorney and counsel
for the school commissioners of Hochelaga for many years and as
counsel tried many immigration cases. He was especially prominent
in the case of Gaetanetta Imparato, who was deported to Italy and
subsequently returned to Canada pursuant to an appeal made by
Mr. Gibeault in her favor. He represented Sarah Kositzky in her
appeal before the department of immigration of the United States
and obtained a commission of three medical men to examine her.
The decision of the first board was afterward reversed by this
commission. Mr. Gibeault’s name appears in connection with other
important cases which have attracted widespread interest not only
in Canada but also in the United States.

Mr. Gibeault is a conservative and was prime minister of the
mock parliament of Laval in 1899 and head of the conservative
ministry, while the leader of the opposition was J. W. Pilon, a
well known lawyer of Montreal. That Mr. Gibeault possesses marked
histrionic as well as legal talent is indicated in the fact that
during the year 1904-5 the Greek drama of Antigone by Sophocles
was played in Greek, on which occasion he took the role of Ismene
and the role of Antigone was taken by D. Lalonde, now Father
Lalonde, P. S. S., one of the directors of Montreal College,
while the role of Creon was played by J. F. St. Cyr, now district
magistrate of St. Johns, Iberville. The production of the play in
Greek created a tremendous sensation at the time because it was
an achievement unheard of before.

On the 26th of June, 1905, Mr. Gibeault was married to Marie
Jeanne Phaneuf, daughter of L. A. Phaneuf, notary public of
Rigaud, and Marie Joseph Adam. Mrs. Gibeault is a niece of the
Rt. Rev. Canon F. L. T. Adam, of Montreal, and Father J. Adam,
S. J. Mr. and Mrs. Gibeault have three children, Yves, Marc and
Madeleine. The religious faith of the family is that of the
Catholic church and Mr. Gibeault is a leading member of the
Independent Order of Foresters. Possessed of natural oratorical
ability, his power in that direction, supplementing the
analytical trend of his mind and added to his broad knowledge of
the law, has gained him distinction as one of the younger members
of the Montreal bar.


DIOSCORE ALFRED BENOIT, M. D.

Dioscore Alfred Benoit, M. D., prominent in the field of medical
practice, making a specialty of obstetrics and gynecology, was
born in Montreal on the 26th of July, 1880, a son of Lucien and
Albina (Bourdon) Benoit, the former a native of Contrecoeur
and the latter of Lavaltrie, Quebec. The paternal grandfather,
Isaac Benoit, was born in Geneva, Switzerland, a member of an
old French family of rank established in Switzerland at the time
that Louis XIV issued the revocation of the edict of Nantes.
Some years after his arrival in Canada Isaac Benoit embraced the
Catholic religion.

Dr. Benoit pursued a commercial course in a Catholic school and
his classical course in St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College. Having
determined upon the practice of medicine as his life work
he entered Laval University wherein he completed the medical
course with the class of 1906. During the succeeding year he was
interne in Notre Dame Hospital and then went abroad to continue
his medical studies in Paris, where he remained for two years,
making a specialty of obstetrics and gynecology. Upon his return
he was made demonstrator of anatomy in Laval University which
position he occupied for a year. He next became adjoint professor
in obstetrics and medicine to Laval University and adjoint
professor to the Catholic Maternity Hospital. He is a member of
the Medical Society of Montreal and the profession as well as the
public recognize the high position which he has attained in the
field in which he specializes. His reading and investigations
have been deep and broad, and his opinions are largely accepted
as authority upon points in question concerning the obstetrical
practice. In politics Dr. Benoit is a conservative according to
the views of Macdonald and Cartier with tendencies toward the
nationalist. His religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic
church. His entire life has been passed in Montreal, save for the
period spent in study abroad. He there came under the instruction
of some of the most eminent physicians and surgeons of Paris,
returning well equipped for the arduous and responsible duties
of a profession in which he has made continuous advancement. Dr.
Benoit’s office is at 945a, St. Denis Street.

[Illustration: DR. DIOSCORE A. BENOIT]


J. LOUIS MICHAUD.

J. Louis Michaud, district engineer of public works of Canada
for the district of Montreal, was born November 27, 1851, at
Rimouski, province of Quebec. He is descended from an old family
of St. Denis, county of Kamouraska. His father was Tobie Michaud,
a contractor and builder, and his mother was Felicitée Fournier.

J. Louis Michaud was educated at the Classical Seminary at
Rimouski and studied engineering with Charles Baillarge, an
eminent engineer of Quebec, for two years, and then for two
years was connected with the engineering department of the
Intercolonial Railway. On the 19th of April, 1878, he was
admitted to practice as a licensed land surveyor at Quebec and
the recognition of his skill and ability came to him in April,
1882, when he was made Dominion land surveyor at Ottawa. In 1883
he came to Montreal to reside, but his work for the Dominion in
surveying the Canadian northwest continued until 1889. From that
year until 1896 he was engaged in private practice in Montreal
and an extensive clientage was accorded him. He is recognized as
one of the best versed men in the science of his profession as
well as in all the practical phases of the business. In 1896 he
was appointed district engineer of public works for the district
of Montreal and has since conscientiously and capably discharged
the duties of that position.

In 1880 Mr. Michaud was married, at Matane, Rimouski county,
Quebec, to Henriette Bradley, who died in 1910. They had eleven
children, three of whom died in childhood. Two of the number,
Albert, aged seventeen years, and René, aged fifteen, met death
by drowning at Ste. Anne de Bellevue. The surviving six are:
Alexander, who is with the Canadian Light & Power Company;
Edouard, a missionary priest in central Africa; Juliette; Adolph;
Grazielle; and Gabrielle. In a review of the life work of J.
Louis Michaud it is self-evident that his advancement has come
through the development of his powers resulting from broad study
and active practice in the profession. He holds to the highest
standards, and his progression has been continuous. He is a
member of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers and is a member
of the Corporation of Land Surveyors in Quebec.


J. AUGUSTINE MANN.

J. Augustine Mann, one of the best known members of the Montreal
bar, was born May 24, 1876, in the city where he still maintains
his home, his parents being Eric and Agnes McWhirter (Bailey)
Mann. For thirty-eight years Eric Mann was an engineer and
architect of Montreal and in 1901 retired from business and
returned to his native city of Edinburgh, Scotland, to live. Mr.
and Mrs. Mann had two children: J. Augustine; and Mrs. Quincy
Tucker, now a resident of Boston, Massachusetts.

The former was educated in Montreal, completing a course in
McGill University with the class of 1901, at which time the B.
C. L. degree was conferred upon him. While in McGill he was also
a student in the office of Foster, Martin & Girouard. Upon his
admission to the bar in 1901 this firm became Foster, Martin,
Girouard & Mann and is now Foster, Martin, Mann, MacKinnon
& Hackett. Mr. Mann was created a king’s counsel in 1911.
His practice has been extensive, and his high reputation has
been well won. Aside from his practice, he is now in business
connections as a Canadian director of the N. K. Fairbanks Company.

Mr. Mann is a member of the Montreal Art Association, the
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association, the Montreal Club,
the Montreal Jockey Club, the Montreal Curling Club and the
Beaconsfield Golf Club. These associations indicate much of the
nature of his interests and indicate him to be a broad-minded,
cultured gentleman and also one of social nature.

Mr. Mann was married in Montreal to Miss Evelyn Gertrude Mann,
and they are parents of two children: Dorothy and Audrey. The
family residence is at No. 822 University Street and their summer
home, Dornal Hall, is at Beaurepaire, Quebec.


JOSEPH WILFRID MICHAUD.

Joseph Wilfrid Michaud, senior member of the firm of Michaud &
Des Rosiers, public accountants at 55 St. Francis Xavier Street
in Montreal, is a native of the province of Quebec, his birth
having occurred at St. Barthelemi on the 2d of August, 1872, his
parents being Olivier and Stephenie (Paquin) Michaud. He was
educated in the schools of his native town and in St. Viateur
Academy. He began his business career as an accountant for the
Western Loan & Trust Company, Ltd., and later became associated
with Mr. A. W. Wilks as a member of a firm of public accountants
under the style of Wilks & Michaud. For a number of years this
firm occupied a prominent place in professional circles in
Montreal. In 1911, following the dissolution of the partnership,
Mr. Michaud joined Mr. Des Rosiers in forming the firm of Michaud
& Des Rosiers. Their clientage is now extensive, and the volume
of their business is justified by the capability of the members
of the firm. Mr. Michaud is a director of the National Loan &
Trust Company, Ltd., and also of the Sapho Manufacturing Company
and thus along several lines has become closely associated with
the business interests of the city.

In 1897 occurred the marriage of Mr. Michaud and Miss Rose
Lafreniere, a daughter of Joseph Lafreniere. They have four
children, Yvonne, Gerard, Paul and Lionel. The religious faith of
the family is that of the Roman Catholic church, and Mr. Michaud
holds membership in Club St. Denis. Identified with the interests
of Montreal throughout the entire period of his business career,
he has become well known, and enterprise and laudable ambition
have brought him to his present enviable position.


JOSEPH ULRIC EMARD, K. C.

One of the distinguished members of the legal profession in
Montreal, whose years of active practice extend through more than
one third of a century, is Joseph Ulric Emard. Well versed in
the science of his profession, a deep thinker, logical reasoner,
he has long since occupied a foremost place among the strong and
forceful Montreal bar.

Mr. Emard comes from one of the old and prominent families of
the province of Quebec. His father, Medard Emard, was one of the
best known and successful educators of his day, while his mother,
previous to her marriage, was Mathilde Beaudin. His brother,
Monseigneur J. M. Emard, now bishop of Valleyfield, was for
years prominent in church work in Montreal and was attached to
Archbishop Fabre’s personal staff at the Palace.

Joseph Ulric Emard was born March 27, 1855, at St. Constant,
Laprairie county, Quebec. Reared in a home where education was
valued at its true worth, he attended St. Hubert grammar school,
then conducted by his father, and was afterward a student in a
private school conducted by Abbé Villeneuve.

His entrance into business life was first as a clerk, but after
a short time he entered Laval University, where he pursued his
law course and was graduated LL. B. in 1881. He was called to
the bar that same year, and at once entered upon active practice
as an advocate, which he has followed ever since, with brilliant
success. Mr. Emard has been connected with a number of important
cases, among them being the famous Lachine Bridge case, which he
won after a notable legal battle, making it the cause celebre of
the day. He was appointed king’s counsel in 1903.

For some years Mr. Emard was associated in practice with Hon. J.
Ald Ouimet, who is, at present, counsel in the firm of Emard &
Emard, composed of Joseph U. Emard and son, Charles.

Mr. Emard’s interests, aside from the law, are diversified
and extensive. Through the splendid use of his talents, as
well as his sound business judgment and foresight, he has been
very successful, not only as to the accumulation of worldly
possessions, but also in the way of important and valuable work
done which has given a decided impetus to the city’s progress
and improvement. He was the founder of the town of Boulevard St.
Paul, now Emard ward, and capably served as its mayor. After
annexation he twice represented this ward on the city council as
alderman.

Mr. Emard has a prominent connection with business affairs;
his interests include mining, real-estate, industrial and
financial companies, in a number of which he is a member of the
directorate. His connection with corporations has brought him an
intimate knowledge concerning corporation law. To some extent
he has specialized in that field of practice, and his knowledge
thereof is comprehensive and exact.

He is a member of the St. James Club, the Canadian Club and Club
St. Denis. Of the last named he was president for a number of
years. In 1903 he had been the chief promoter of Club Jacques
Cartier. In 1884 he had been president of St. Jean Baptiste
Society of the St. Vincent de Paul section. Mr. Emard’s political
allegiance is given to the conservative party.

He was married to Miss Exilda Stuart of Montreal, and they belong
to the Catholic church.

A man of fine personal appearance and keen intellectuality,
his mind has been well trained, enabling him to readily meet
any emergency with the consciousness that comes from a right
perception of things and a strong regard for what is best in the
exercise of human activities.


EMILIEN GADBOIS-VAN DAN DAIGUE.

Based upon an excellent professional education, Emilien
Gadbois-Van dan Daigue has already made his mark in the legal
profession in Montreal, where he practices as a member of the
firm of La Mothe, Gadbois & Nantel. The first member of the Van
dan Daigue family came to Canada in 1671 from Brussels, Belgium.
Pierre Van dan Daigue Gadbois, of the Gadbois family, was born
in 1574 and died on October 20, 1667, at Montreal. Joseph Van
dan Daigue was born in 1653 at Meunisier and at Quebec, on April
18, 1678, married Louise Chalifour. He died on the 11th of June,
1725, at Charlesbourg. The records of the family continue to
the fourth generation up to 1750 in Abbé Tanguay’s Dictionnaire
Généalogique.

Emilien Gadbois-Van dan Daigue was born October 30, 1884, a son
of Emile Gadbois, a well known horticulturist of Longemont,
Rouville county, province of Quebec. His mother before her
marriage was Priscillia Bernard, a sister of Monseigneur A. X.
Bernard, bishop of St. Hyacinthe. Emilien Gadbois was educated
at Montreal College, on Sherbrooke Street, and Laval University.
On the 1st of July, 1907, he received the degree of B. A. with
distinction and in the same year won the first prize in
French literature in Laval University. In 1910 he was made by
that institution LL. M. and on July 8th, of the same year he
received his commission as a lawyer and has since practiced with
ever increasing success in Montreal, having formed a partnership
with L. E. Bernard, K. C., with whom he was associated until
May, 1914, when he became a member of the firm of La Mothe,
Gadbois & Nantel with offices in the Quebec Bank building. He
has all the faculties of which a lawyer may be proud, skill
in the presentation of his evidence, marked ability in cross
examination, perseverance before the jury, and a strong grasp of
every feature of the case. It is therefore but natural that he
readily received recognition and is today connected with much
important litigation in the local courts.

[Illustration: EMILIEN GADBOIS-VAN DAN DAIGUE]

In his political views Mr. Gadbois is a conservative, stanchly
upholding the principles of his party, although he has not yet
become connected with public life. As a member of the Canadian
Club he can be found in the ranks of those men who have at heart
the development and progress of the Dominion, and he is ever
loyal to his city. His faith is that of the Catholic church. On
the threshold of a successful career, he has ever moved in the
right direction toward fame, and a distinguished future may be
prophesied for him, a future which will bring new luster to the
old family name which he bears.


JOSEPH H. RAINVILLE, M. P.

Joseph H. Rainville, a member of parliament and deeply interested
in questions concerning the government, province and Dominion,
is today recognized as one of the younger leaders of the
conservative party. He chose as a profession the practice of law,
and it is a notable fact that members of the bar are more apt
to become prominent figures in political circles than any other
class of men. The reason for this is obvious, as the training
which qualifies them for the onerous and difficult work of the
courts also prepares them to solve the intricate and complex
problems of local or general government.

Quebec numbers Mr. Rainville among her native sons, his birth
having occurred at Ste. Angele, Rouville county, on the 8th of
March, 1875. In the attainment of his education he attended
successively Monnoir College, Marieville, and Laval University,
where he won the degree of Bachelor of Laws. He entered upon
the active practice of his profession with L. E. Beauregard of
Montreal in 1901. No dreary novitiate awaited him. His capability
won almost immediate recognition. He is an effective speaker,
earnest in his appeals before the court, zealous in support of
his cause, and at all times loyal to the interests of his clients.

Since age conferred upon him the right of franchise Joseph H.
Rainville has been a stalwart conservative, and in 1908 he
unsuccessfully contested Vercheres county at the provincial
election, being defeated by a majority of ninety-eight. When
the tide of popular favor turned against the liberal government
of the Dominion in September, 1911, he became a member for
Chambly-Vercheres, so that he is now occupying a seat in the
house. He frankly and fearlessly expresses his opinion, but also
possesses the tact of the successful politician who seeks to
conciliate rather than antagonize.

Mr. Rainville married Miss Gendreau, daughter of Dr. J. G. A.
Gendreau of Montreal. Mr. Rainville is a lieutenant in the
Eighty-fifth Regiment and is a member of the Montreal Gun
Club. His friends speak of him as always a courteous, polished
gentleman, both forceful and resourceful when occasion demands.


EDOUARD FABRE SURVEYER.

Edouard Fabre Surveyer, who throughout his professional career
has been a representative of the Montreal bar and equally well
known as an educator and author in the field of his profession,
was born in this city in 1875. His father, L. J. A. Surveyer, is
a Montreal merchant and a past vice president of the Chamber of
Commerce. He married Hectorine Fabre, a daughter of the late E.
R. Fabre and a sister of the late Archbishop Fabre, the late Hon.
Hector Fabre, C. M. G., and of the late Lady Cartier.

E. Fabre Surveyer was a student in St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College,
where he made an excellent record, winning the Angers bronze
medal for letters in 1890, the Mercier gold medal for rhetoric in
1891 and the alumni gold medal for philosophy in 1893. He took
up his law course in Laval University and was graduated LL. L.
with first class honors in 1896. The same year he won his B. C.
L. degree with first class honors from McGill University, but not
content with the preparation that he had already made for active
practice at the bar, he went abroad and completed his law course
in Paris and took part in the first International Congress of
Lawyers at Brussels in 1897. He was a delegate to the Universal
Congress of Lawyers and Jurists at St. Louis, Missouri, in 1904
and is correspondent for several Canadian, American, French and
Belgian law reviews.

It was in 1897 that Mr. Surveyer entered upon active practice in
Montreal in connection with McGibbon, Casgrain, Ryan & Mitchell.
He has not only obtained success in practice but has also gained
recognition for his ability in other professional connections. He
has been the editor of the Quebec Practice Reports since their
establishment in 1897 and since 1905 has been a lecturer in
practice and pleading in McGill University. He was made a king’s
counsel by the government of Quebec in 1909. On withdrawal from
the firm of McGibbon, Casgrain, Mitchell & Surveyer in 1909 he
entered into a partnership with H. A. Lovett, K. C., a connection
that was continued until the following year. Since September,
1913, Mr. Surveyer has been the senior member of the firm of
Surveyer, Ogden & Mariotti. Mr. Surveyer also has an office in
New York city in connection with the firm of Daly, Hoyt & Mason,
attorneys at law. He has published a pamphlet, The Bench and Bar
of Montreal, and there are few who are more familiar with the
history of the courts of this city than Mr. Surveyer. In 1903 he
was president of the Junior Bar Association of Montreal, while in
1914 he became the secretary of the newly formed Canadian Bar
Association. A fluent speaker, forceful and earnest, Mr. Surveyer
has as ready a command of English as he has of French.

Aside from his professional duties and interests Mr. Surveyer
is connected with various business enterprises which feature
in the material development and prosperity of the city. He is
vice president of the Union Land Corporation, Ltd., and the
Lachine Land Company, Ltd.; is a director of the Capital Trust
Corporation (Ottawa), of the Franco-Canadian Land & Development
Company, Ltd., and of the Rothesay Realty Company, Ltd. In all
business affairs his judgment is sound and his discrimination
keen, and he falters not until his purpose has been accomplished
and success has rewarded his efforts.

In October, 1906, Mr. Surveyer was married to Miss Elodie
Barnard, a daughter of the late Edmund Barnard, K. C., of
Montreal. In religious faith Mr. Surveyer is a Catholic and in
political belief a conservative. He is regarded as one of the
prominent members of the party among its younger representatives,
and of him the Windsor Record (liberal) said: “He has a splendid
platform presence, speaks English fluently, and has the
appearance of an all round campaigner.” Mr. Surveyer’s social
connections are with the University Club, Club Lafontaine and
Canadian Club of Montreal; the Albany Club, of Toronto; and the
Colonial Club, of London, England. He has been president of the
Canadian Club, as well as vice president of the Federation of
Canadian Clubs and is a member of the executive board of the
University Club and a director and honorary solicitor of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Among Mr. Surveyer’s other connections, he is vice president of
L’Alliance Française and a member of the board of the Federation
de L’Alliance Française aux Etats Unis et au Canada.

He is a member of the executive committee of the
Liberal-Conservative Association, and thus in a number of the
organizations with which he is allied he has been honored with
office. He regards the practice of law, however, as his real life
work, and he has at times been heard by the judicial committee
of the privy council of England. He has been throughout life
a student, and since his admission to the bar has remained a
close and discriminating student of law principles, thoroughly
qualifying himself for the conduct of all legal business
intrusted to his care.


WILLIAM FORREST ANGUS.

As vice president and general manager of the Canadian Steel
Foundries, Ltd., William Forrest Angus represents one of the
foremost industries of the Dominion. He was born in Montreal,
October 28, 1873, a son of Richard Bladworth Angus, the eminent
financier and railway promoter.

William F. Angus was educated privately in preparation for his
university course and entered for that purpose McGill, from which
he graduated as B. A. Sc. in 1895, completing his university work
with a post-graduate course in 1896. He then entered the employ
of the Dominion Bridge Company and subsequently was with the
Laurie Engine Company, which is now defunct. His next position
was with the Canada Switch and Spring Company, which was merged
into the Montreal Steel Works. He remained with this concern,
rapidly rising to more and more important positions until he was
made manager and managing director. When this company was bought
out by the Canadian Steel Foundries, Ltd., about two years ago
he was elected vice president and managing director of this vast
enterprise.

In November, 1904, Mr. Angus was united in marriage to Miss Grace
N., eldest daughter of Sergeant P. Stearns of Montreal. They
reside at No. 364 Peel Street. In his religious faith Mr. Angus
is a Presbyterian. He is prominent in club life, being a member
of the St. James Club, the Mount Royal, the Canada, the Forest
and Stream, the Montreal Hunt, the University, the Montreal
Curling, the Montreal Racquet and the St. Lawrence Yacht Clubs.
His name is also on the roster of the Canadian Society of Civil
Engineers.

Highly trained in his profession, careful in judgment, shrewd,
energetic and a man of rare executive force, Mr. Angus ably
administers the affairs of a vast industrial enterprise, and
his career bids fair to rival that of his distinguished father.
He is deeply interested in all that pertains to progress and
trade expansion and can always be found among those men who are
the most forceful exponents of advanced measures inaugurated to
exploit the vast resources of the Dominion. He bends his genius
to create new markets and increase trade facilities and gives
of the best of his ability so that the Dominion of Canada may
march in the van of the great industrial nations of the world.
Realizing that the natural resources lie but dormant, awaiting
the magic wand of man, he has linked himself with such men as
will guide the Dominion to the industrial position in the world
which is its due.


THOMAS GAUTHIER.

The specific and distinctive office of biography is not to
give voice to a man’s modest estimate of himself and his
accomplishments but rather to leave the perpetual record
establishing his character by the consensus of opinion on the
part of his fellowmen, and any history of Montreal introducing
biographies of her citizens whose activities and influence have
been for the city’s growth and betterment, would be incomplete
without reference to Thomas Gauthier.

His life has been so varied in activity, so honorable in its
purposes, so far-reaching and beneficial in its effects that it
has become an integral part of the history of the city and also
left an impress upon the annals of the province. His business
interests are extensive and important, but by no means cover the
scope of his activities, as he has been identified with various
movements and projects having to do with the public welfare along
material, political, social and moral lines.

Mr. Gauthier was born in Montreal in 1844 and attended the
Lachine Commercial School, but is largely a self-educated as well
as a self-made man. He has ever been a reader and thinker and in
the school of experience has learned many valuable lessons. At
times he has acquired with labor and difficulty the knowledge
which he has been so anxious should be given others, his efforts
in behalf of education being well known. He began his active
business career in Montreal in 1869, and for many years he
conducted the Place Chaboillez establishment with conspicuous
success. During this time, having become widely and favorably
known, he was elected president of the old Society of Mutual
Assistance--the Union St. Joseph.

[Illustration: THOMAS GAUTHIER]

In 1881 the Association of Retail Grocers, of which he was one
of the founders, appointed him president and through his active
exertions the Chamber of Commerce of Montreal was established.
Along these and various other lines he has promoted the business
activity of Montreal, pushing forward the wheels of progress in
such a way that the entire city has benefited thereby.

His public service in connection with municipal affairs has
been equally notable and commendable. He was one of Montreal’s
aldermen from 1890 to 1893, and his labors were effective
and beneficial as a member of the committees of police and
hygiene. He was largely instrumental in establishing the mutual
benefit fund among the members of the police force and also in
establishing the first public bath in Hochelaga ward. All this,
however, does not cover the scope of his activities, for in
various other fields of usefulness his labors proved resultant.
In the year 1883-4 he was general treasurer of the St. Jean
Baptiste Society and was treasurer of the Montreal Exposition
Company, in 1891, the only year in which it showed a surplus. He
was a member of the finance committee of the National Association
for a number of years, being also one of the promoters of the
building of the Monument National, and in 1909 he was elected
vice president and in 1911 became president, serving until April,
1913.

One of the most important of Mr. Gauthier’s public services
has been in behalf of education. It was largely through the
missionary work done by him and the assistance he received from
the Chamber of Commerce, the Board of Trade and the Builders’
Exchange that the government was induced to take up the
establishment of technical schools in Montreal and Quebec. In
this connection Mr. Gauthier has done a noble and patriotic work,
the value of which cannot be estimated. He has been president of
the Council of Arts and Manufactures continuously since 1897, and
more than three thousand scholars are now participating in these
classes.

He has ever believed in that special training which will enable
the individual to develop his native talents and thus qualify
for the business life to which he is best adapted. Mr. Gauthier
was associated with Dr. Adami in the general presidency of the
Child’s Welfare movement.

In the various movements and projects with which Mr. Gauthier has
been associated, whether financial, educational, philanthropic
or commercial, he has shown the same intelligent and careful
interest as in his own private business affairs.

In connection with the affairs of La Caisse Nationale d’Economie,
of which he was one of the founders in 1899, he has taken a very
active and prominent part. Ever since its organization he has
been chairman of the finance committee, also chairman of the
committee of administration, and has been no small factor in the
splendid success of this association.

He is an extensive holder of stock in the Montreal Light, Heat
& Power Company, as well as in the Lake of the Woods Milling
Company, and is president of the Amherst Park Land Company.

Mr. Gauthier is an exceptionally well preserved gentleman for one
of his years, and among his extensive acquaintance he is spoken
of in terms of admiration and respect.

He has continuously been a student of the signs of the times, of
existing conditions and keeps abreast with the best thinking men
of the age in his knowledge of political, economical and social
questions affecting the welfare and progress of the race.


WILLIAM DOUW LIGHTHALL.

The position of William Douw Lighthall has for many years been
one of leadership. He has exerted wide and beneficial influence
on public thought and action and as lawyer, author and the
promoter of various prominent societies his name has become
known throughout the length and breadth of the land. He has been
termed “a living example of good citizenship ... a man of high
culture, refined tastes and exceptional literary ability.” His
efforts along all the lines in which his activities have been
put forth have been productive of far-reaching and beneficial
results. He was born at Hamilton, Ontario, December 27, 1857,
a son of William Francis Lighthall, who is the doyen of the
Montreal notarial profession, and is descended from the Schuyler,
Van Renssalaer and Van Cortlandt families, three of the most
prominent Knickerbocker families of New York. The mother, Mrs.
Margaret Lighthall, was the eldest daughter of Captain Henry
Wright, of Chateauguay, who was a son of Major James Wright
(McIntyre), the commander of the British settlers of the district
in the War of 1812.

After being dux of the high school of Montreal William D.
Lighthall pursued a classical course in McGill University, from
which he was graduated with the Bachelor of Arts degree and the
Shakespeare gold medal in English literature in 1879. He then
entered upon the study of law at McGill, which conferred upon
him the B. C. L. degree in 1881, and he took the honorary degree
of M. A. in 1885. With the completion of his law course he was
called to the bar and began practice as an advocate. Nature
endowed him with keen mentality, and the thoroughness with which
he prepared his cases and the earnestness with which he presented
his causes before the courts won him success and advancement.
He was created king’s counsel in 1906. For a long period he has
been accounted one of the distinguished representatives of the
Montreal bar, practicing as senior member of the law firm of
Lighthall & Harwood.

What he has accomplished as a member of the legal profession
would alone entitle W. D. Lighthall to mention among the
representative men of Montreal, yet he has gained equal
prominence as an author, as a promoter of various societies, as
an antiquarian greatly interested in historical and antiquarian
research, and as a public-spirited citizen who takes cognizance
of the needs of the hour and employs practical methods in working
for high ideals for the benefit of city, province and Dominion.
He was the founder of the Society of Canadian Literature, the
Canadian National League, the Westmount Liberal Club, the
Montreal Tourist Association, and originated and, in connection
with De Lery Macdonald, established the Chateau de Ramezay
Historical Museum. He was also the founder of the Union of
Canadian Municipalities. He was one of those largely instrumental
in securing the erection of the Maisonneuve monument at
Montreal and was the discoverer of the Indian burying ground at
Westmount. He is interested in all that pertains to the history
of the country from prehistoric times down to the present, and
his researches and investigations have been carried far and
wide, bringing to light many interesting points bearing upon the
travel history of the North American Indians as well as upon the
period of the early colonists and the development of Canada. He
is a member of the Scotch Society of Literature and Art; a vice
president of the National Municipal League of America; a fellow
of the Royal Society of Canada and a fellow of the Royal Society
of Literature; an honorary member of the Women’s Historical
Society of Canada and of the Chateauguay Literary and Historical
Society; life corresponding member of the Quebec Literary and
Historical Society; president of the Numismatic and Antiquarian
Society; a governor of the Congregational College of Canada and
of the Joint Board of Theological Colleges of McGill University;
and has been a representative fellow of the University. In 1910
he was appointed a member of the Metropolitan Parks Commission.

In all these years, retiring to the quiet of his study, he has
devoted hours to writing, and his authorship has gained him
equal renown with his efforts in other directions. His first
published volume, Thoughts, Moods and Ideals (verse), came from
the press in 1887 and was followed in 1888 by The Young Seigneur.
Then came The Battle of Chateauguay, in 1889; Montreal After
250 Years, in 1892; The False Chevalier, in 1898; a Prehistoric
Hochelaga Burying-ground, in 1898; A Link in Iroquois History,
in 1899; The Glorious Enterprise, in 1901; Hiawatha the Great,
in 1901; and Westmount: a Municipal Illustration, in 1902.
This last book followed his three years of service as mayor of
Westmount, so that he was qualified to discuss the subjects of
which the volume treated. The same year he brought forth a volume
entitled To the Boers: A Friend’s Appeal from Canada. In 1904
he published Canada, a Modern Nation, and Thomas Pownall: His
Part in the Conquest of Canada. In 1908 he added to the list
of his publications A Romance of Prehistoric Montreal and The
Master of Life; and in 1910, The Governance of Empire and Sights
and Shrines of Montreal. He also published Songs of the Great
Dominion (Windsor series) in 1889, and Canadian Poems and Lays
(Canterbury Poets series) in 1891.

There are few men in possession in so eminent a degree of the
habits, tastes and ability of the scholar and at the same time in
so large a measure the practical qualities which find expression
in successful professional service and in public-spirited
citizenship. Mr. Lighthall has studied as closely the signs of
the times and the questions of the hour as he has the history
of the past. His deep interest in the cause of education was
manifest in his service as chairman of the board of school
commissioners of Westmount, to which office he was appointed in
1909. He is an imperialist in principle and at the same time a
strong believer in the necessity and advantage of organizing the
intellectual and higher interests of Canadian nationality and
retaining state ownership and control of forests, railways, land
tenure, coal mines and other public resources.

In October, 1890, Mr. Lighthall was married to Miss Cybel
Charlotte Wilkes, a daughter of John Wilkes and a granddaughter
of the late Rev. Dr. Henry Wilkes. Mrs. Lighthall is vice
president of the local branch of the Zenana Bible and Medical
Mission, and is also a vice president of the Canadian Handicrafts
Guild. Something of the nature of his recreation is indicated
in the fact that Mr. Lighthall belongs to Lac Tremblant Fishing
Club, of which he was elected president in 1909, and in the
same year he was admitted an Iroquois Indian chief with the
name of Ticonderoga in recognition of services to that race. He
furthermore belongs to the University, Canada, Reform, Montreal,
Country and Canadian Clubs of Montreal and the Royal Societies
Club of London, England. His winter residence, Chateauclair, is
at No. 14 Murray Avenue, Westmount, while his summer home, Camp
Beartracks, is at Lac Tremblant. In the review of his history it
seems that his constantly expanding powers are opening to him
a still broader field of usefulness and establishing him more
firmly in the position of prominence which he today occupies.


JOSEPH DROUIN.

Joseph Drouin, a member of the Montreal bar, was born at Two
Mountains, in the province of Quebec, on the 15th of November,
1875, a son of Firmin and Mathilde (Lafrance) Drouin, sturdy
French Canadian farmers. He is of the eighth generation in
descent from Robert Drouin, of Pin au Perche, France, who became
the founder of the family in the new world, establishing himself
at Quebec in 1635. The principal branch of the family remains in
Quebec and Orleans, but in 1751 one branch detached itself from
the main Quebec stem and was transplanted to Montreal, where
representatives of the name have since been found in the city and
surrounding districts.

[Illustration: JOSEPH DROUIN]

Joseph Drouin pursued a classical course in the seminary of Ste.
Thérèse and won his B. C. L. degree upon graduation from McGill
University in April, 1904. He engaged in the practice of law,
winning a liberal clientage that connected him with the important
work of the courts. Of late Mr. Drouin has devoted his attention
to the management of his own private interests.

Mr. Drouin is a Roman Catholic in religious faith. He was married
in Montreal on the 22d of November, 1904, to Marie Orpha Leduc,
a daughter of Augustin and Philomène (Lefebvre) Leduc, who were
farming people at St. Benoit, Deux Montagnes, province of Quebec.
Unto Mr. and Mrs. Drouin have been born five children: Cécile,
Thérèse, René, Marguerite and Gabriel.


HON. HONORE MERCIER.

Among contemporary Canadian statesmen a foremost place must
be assigned to the late Hon. Honore Mercier, premier of the
province of Quebec. He was not only distinguished by reason of
his position at the head of the government of one of the foremost
provinces of the Canadian federation but attained distinction
along various other lines having to do with the progress and
upbuilding of the country and the upholding of its political,
legal and moral status. A native of the province of Quebec, he
was born at Iberville, October 15, 1840. He came of a family
of unpretentious farmers, or habitants, as they are styled in
Lower Canada, the ancestors originally from Old France, although
several generations have been represented in the county of
Montmagny below the city of Quebec. His father had to provide for
the needs of a large household, but he was a man of energy and
foresight and counted no personal sacrifice too great if he could
thereby equip his children for the later responsibilities and
duties that fall to the lot of every individual. The maiden name
of the mother was Marie Catherine Laflamme.

When fourteen years of age Honore Mercier became a student in the
Jesuit College in Montreal, where he completed his education,
making an excellent record. Some time afterward he determined
upon the practice of law as his life work and became a student in
the office of Laflamboise & Papineau, who directed his reading
until he was admitted to practice in 1865. While a law student
he turned his attention to journalism and in 1862 became editor
in chief of the Courier de St. Hyacinthe, winning distinction
because of his able political editorials, his support being given
to the Macdonald-Sicotte liberal administration.

Following his admission to the bar Mr. Mercier retired from the
profession of journalism to concentrate his energies upon his
law practice. His thorough training, his natural powers and his
ambition soon brought him a prominent position at the bar and
from that time forward his advancement was continuous as a factor
in those affairs and events which have shaped the history of
province and Dominion.

In 1871 he appeared in the political arena at Bagot as a
supporter of M. Langelier, the liberal candidate. The following
year, upon the earnest solicitation of his friends, he became a
candidate for Rouville in the house of commons and was elected.
Following the downfall of the conservative government in 1873,
he yielded his seat to Mr. Cheval in 1874, to avoid dividing
the vote of the liberal party in the case of the redoubtable
conservative candidate, Mr. Gigault. Following his retirement to
private life he entered upon a partnership with Mr. Bourgeois of
St. Hyacinthe. He was made the candidate of the liberal party
in 1878, standing for St. Hyacinthe, but lost the election
by six votes. The following year a majority of three hundred
and seven votes elected him to the legislative assembly to
represent St. Hyacinthe and he became solicitor-general of the
Joly administration, filling out the unexpired term of Hon. P.
Bachand, deceased. Mr. Mercier continued in the office until the
administration went out in the same year.

In 1881, following his removal from St. Hyacinthe to Montreal,
Mr. Mercier became a law partner of Messrs. Beausoleil &
Martineau and was again called into the field of political
activity when in December, 1881, at the general provincial
election he was chosen by acclamation for his old constituency,
St. Hyacinthe. In the beginning of the session of 1883 Hon. Mr.
Joly resigned the direction of the provincial liberal party and
Mr. Mercier was unanimously chosen his successor, on motion of
Mr. Joly, as the leader of the opposition. Here his dominant
qualities found fitting scope, his ability and qualities of
leadership placing him within a brief period among the foremost
French-Canadian statesmen. Within the short space of three
years he demonstrated what could be accomplished by an able and
intrepid leader with the support of a small but disciplined and
trusty band of parliamentary followers to retrieve the fallen
fortunes of his party and to defend and lead to victory a
popular cause the moment circumstances placed it in his hands.

As the accepted leader of the new national party formed by a
combination of liberals and conservative bolters, Mr. Mercier not
only directed the whole movement but personally traversed the
province of Quebec almost from end to end, addressing as many as
one hundred and sixty meetings and leaving the impress of his
influence as a factor in the promotion of his cause. The election
of October, 1886, resulted in a victory for the nationals. After
the struggle, which ensued in the final overthrow of the Ross
administration, Mr. Mercier was called upon by the lieutenant
governor to form a new cabinet and in less than twenty-four
hours, as a result of his quick decisions and promptness in
action, he had made choice of his colleagues, announcing the
result to the legislature and the country, both receiving it with
marked satisfaction.

The close of the first session found him more popular and more
firmly established in the good graces of the people than ever, a
position that was augmented later by the marvelous success of his
administration as evidenced in the settlement of the long pending
dispute with Ontario respecting the division of the common school
fund and the unusually advantageous negotiation of the new
provincial loan of three and a half millions. His adversaries
attributed these and other valuable results to good luck, but a
real student of politics knows that good management and thorough
understanding of the situation lay back of them. Mr. Mercier
remained in power until December, 1891, when he was dismissed by
Lieutenant Governor Angers as a result of an investigation held
by a royal commission on what then became known as the Baie des
Chaleurs Scandal.

On March 8, 1892, at the general elections, though Mr. Mercier
was returned for Bonaventure, which he had represented since
the general elections of 1890, his party was annihilated and he
ceased to be a factor in provincial politics.

Following his retirement to private life he joined his
son-in-law, Sir Lomer Gouin, and Mr. R. Lemieux in a law
partnership, but he rarely appeared in court. However, he
won the highest professional honors. He was actually the
attorney-general as well as the premier of Quebec. He was twice
batonnier of the bar of the Montreal district, and the respect
entertained for him by his legal colleagues was so great that
they unanimously elevated him to the still more distinguished
eminence of batonnier-general of the bar of the province. Of him
it has been written: “Heralded to the world as the apostle of
an advanced radicalism which in reality had no representative
in this country, he not only preached but practiced a different
gospel and in office proved himself unusually moderate and
conciliatory as well as a man of broad and generous views, free
from sectionalism and exceedingly anxious to do justice to all
races, classes and creeds, yet fully determined to work out the
regeneration of his native province on the great lines of reform
which he ever regarded as essential to that desirable end.”

Mr. Mercier held to the religious faith of the
French-Canadians--that of the Roman Catholic church and his loyal
adherence thereto increased with the passing years. There was a
time, however, when, on account of his political liberalism and
alliances, his orthodoxy was more than once seriously questioned
by his political foes to his personal and party detriment.
This, however, passed by and the Papal authority conceded that
a man may be a liberal in politics and yet a good Catholic,
while the clergy of Lower Canada came to know that he was not
only a devoted churchman in theory and practice, but also that
the interests of Catholicism were as safe in his hands as in
those of its self-constituted champions who proclaimed their
zeal for the faith from the housetops. There was in him nothing
of narrow-minded bigotry and perhaps no prominent statesman
or political leader of his day has shown himself so free from
religious or sectional bias in the conduct of affairs relating
to the entire community. A French-Canadian in heart and soul and
a thorough son of the soil, still, “strict and impartial justice
to all classes, races and creeds and undue favor to none,” seems
to have been the motto upon which Honore Mercier always acted.
In 1893 he undertook a campaign in favor of the independence of
Canada and advocated this both here and in the United States, but
with no tangible results. Though received enthusiastically in the
eastern states, he met with a rebuff in Chicago, and abandoned
the campaign to resume his practice in Montreal.

Two notable features in his life history were the torchlight
procession in his honor in Montreal following his return from
Europe, and the reception he tendered the ex-Papal zouaves at his
country seat at Ste. Anne de la Perade, when he distributed the
medals awarded them by the pope. On that occasion Mr. Mercier
appeared in the gorgeous uniform of commander of the Order of St.
Gregory the Great--the first time it had been seen in Canada.
The wide recognition given his ability is attested by a partial
list of the honors conferred upon him. Not only did he receive
the grand cross of the Order of St. Gregory the Great from the
pope but His Holiness also raised him to the rank of count. He
was in addition to these honors officer of the Legion of Honor;
commander of the Order of Leopold I, King of the Belgians; and
chevalier of the Order of St. Sepulcher. He was made queen’s
counsel and received the degree of Doctor of Laws from Laval
University, the University of Fordham, New York, and the
University of Georgetown.

A man of his ability and eminence could not fail to have enemies,
but he had also hosts of friends. He possessed that quality
which, for want of a better term, has been called magnetism. He
was most generous and ever had a helping hand out-reaching to
those who needed assistance. His residence both in Montreal and
in Quebec was always filled with his admirers. It has been said
repeatedly that his so-called friends were largely responsible
for any errors that he may have committed. He was particularly
helpful to young men, many of whom have reason to remember him
with gratitude. It was his delight to assist a struggling youth
in his law studies or in other ways.

Mr. Mercier was twice married. On the 29th of May, 1866, he
wedded Leopoldine Boivin of St. Hyacinthe, who died leaving a
daughter who subsequently married Sir Lomer Gouin and who is
now deceased. On the 9th of May, 1871, Honore Mercier married
Virginie St. Denis, also of St. Hyacinthe, and they had two
sons and one daughter to reach adult age, Honore, Paul-Emile
and Héva. The elder son is a member of the Gouin cabinet and a
sketch of his life appears elsewhere in this work. The younger
son is a civil and consulting engineer and is mentioned elsewhere
in this history. Héva married Dr. Homère Fauteux and resides in
Beauceville.

The death of Hon. Honore Mercier occurred October 30, 1894, on
which occasion the Montreal Daily Star said editorially: “The
career of the late Hon. Honore Mercier is one that will long live
on the lips of those who delight in political reminiscences
of this historic province. He played a conspicuous role in the
political drama; and, while he was on the stage, pretty well
absorbed the attention of the multitude. That he was a man of
rare ability in many ways, his swift attainment of the highest
positions in Quebec amply attests.

“It is too late in the day for those who contributed to his
overthrow in ’92 to make mawkish pretension of blindness to his
faults, but it may truly be said that he gained striking success
in spite of his faults, and, further, that it was his own hand
that turned the current of destiny against him. Like all strong
characters, he made many warm personal friends, and there will be
more sincere mourning at his bier than falls to the lot of most
mortals.”

Senator L. O. David, an intimate and lifelong friend of Mr.
Mercier, in making a parallel between the three most popular men
of our time, Laurier, Chapleau and Mercier, has written of the
latter: “Mercier is the heaviest of the three, the strongest
built and the most muscular; he is tall, with black eyes and
hair and a heavy mustache--a veritable type of musketeer--the
personification of strength and energy. He walks heavily with
the assurance of a man who believes that the earth belongs
to him. Mercier is the most solid, the most vigorous and the
most penetrating. Penetrating is, indeed, the word which best
describes his eloquence. See his movements; they resemble those
of the axeman who strikes the tree at the root and at each blow
removes a chip. Mercier is a parliamentary orator, a lawyer, a
tribune. He is the strongest, cleverest, and most indefatigable
speaker whom I have heard in the house or on the hustings. While
I write these words I learn that he is dead. Is it possible that
so much of life and intellect are gone forever? What a loss!
How little we mortals are! Alas; had he struggled to preserve
his health as he fought to regain it, he would not have died so
young. Yes, so young, because he was built to live thirty or
forty years more. Death has seldom met a more valiant fighter; it
has vanquished him, but he died almost standing, as he often said
he would.

“Before the grave, which opens to receive his mortal remains,
criticism will disarm, no doubt, to render homage to the splendor
and power of his intelligence, his political genius, to the
energy of his character and the sincerity of his patriotism.
Through all the vicissitudes of a stormy life, in spite of his
faults and weaknesses, he preserved until the last moment all the
fervor of the religious and patriotic sentiments of his youth.
Of all the political men I have known, he is the one who, in all
things and under all circumstances, was most given to consider
questions from a national standpoint. He was frankly, sincerely,
profoundly patriotic and without fanaticism. Few men have had
more devoted friends, enthusiastic admirers, and secured more
brilliant triumphs and undergone such crushing defeats. He was
stronger in defeat than in victory. Much will be forgiven him
because he suffered much.”


HON. HENRI C. BERRYER-SAINT-PIERRE.

The subject of this short biographical sketch was born at Ste.
Madeleine de Rigaud, during a short stay of his parents in that
parish, on the 13th day of September 1842, but was brought up at
Isle Bizard, on the Lake of Two Mountains, near Montreal. His
father, a farmer, was Joseph Berryer-Saint-Pierre of Isle
Bizard, and his mother, Demitilde Denis dit Saint-Denis, who had
been born at Pointe Claire. Young Henri received his classical
and literary education at the old Montreal College on Collège
Street near McGill Street. On leaving college he was sent up to
Kingston, Ontario, where he began his law course, the object
in sending him up there being to give him an opportunity of
improving his knowledge of the English language. Having passed
the required examinations for his admission to the study of the
law, he availed himself of the permission which had been granted
him to go and visit Niagara falls and the city of Buffalo. The
great battle of Gettysburg had just been fought and won by the
northern army, and on his arrival at Buffalo, he found the people
delirious with the news of the recent victory. Our young student,
who had inherited from his ancestors a marked taste for the
military career (a career by the way for which there were but few
openings for a young French Canadian in those days, in Canada),
was altogether carried away by the enthusiastic demonstrations
which he then witnessed and made up his mind to give up the
doleful study of Blackstone to enter the American army. A short
time later, the runaway student was a member of Company F in the
Seventy-sixth New York Volunteers. At the battle of Mine Run
which was fought on the 27th November, 1863, he was wounded and
reported as dead at the regiment. The same report having been
reproduced in the Montreal papers, the usual service for the dead
was celebrated for him at the Montreal College and at Isle Bizard
where his widowed mother was living. He was picked up from the
field however by the southern cavalry and sent to the military
prison of Belle Island in the city of Richmond from which he
was later on transferred to Andersonville in Georgia. After the
capture of Atlanta, he was removed with the other prisoners first
to Savannah, and then to Florence and finally to Charleston’s
race ground in South Carolina, where he regained his liberty in
the spring of 1865 on the city being evacuated by the southern
troops. On his return to Montreal after the war, he resumed his
legal studies first in the office of Sir George Etienne Cartier,
for whom he, for a time, acted as private secretary, and later
on in that of the Hon. J. J. C. Abbott who some years afterward
became premier of Canada.

[Illustration: H. C. BERRYER-SAINT-PIERRE]

He was admitted to the bar in June, 1870. His career at the
Montreal bar was a most successful and brilliant one, and he soon
became one of the leading lawyers in the province of Quebec,
being particularly noted for his success as a criminal lawyer.
His record as such was never surpassed at least in his province
and but seldom equalled anywhere. It is said that he pleaded
not less than thirty-three cases of murder, securing complete
acquittals in most of them. Not one of those he defended was ever
found guilty of murder in the first degree and sentenced to be
hanged, except Shortis who had killed two men at Valleyfield and
wounded dangerously a third one. In this last case, the plea of
impulsive insanity was urged for the first time in the province
of Quebec as a ground of defense and proved successful in the end
in spite of the verdict of the jury. Shortis is today detained
in the penitentiary of Kingston as “a dangerous lunatic.” Judge
Saint-Pierre frequently associated in the defence of persons
accused of serious crimes with Donald MacMaster, K. C., now a
member of the English parliament, who was his intimate friend.

In 1889, he was created a queen’s counsel by the Earl of
Aberdeen. Judge Saint-Pierre never showed any great inclination
for politics but confined his labor and efforts more particularly
to secure the highest position in his profession as a lawyer.
Being a liberal, he consented however to be the nominee of the
liberal party in the county of Jacques-Cartier, for the local
seat in 1878 against the old member, but was defeated by a small
majority.

He was married in 1874 to Marie Albina Lesieur, daughter of
Adolphe Lesieur, a merchant of Terrebonne. She died on the 19th
December, 1908, leaving five children, three boys and two girls
who are all married and settled. In 1902 on the occasion of his
being raised to the bench, he was made an officer of the order of
the Crown of Italy upon a petition presented to the King of Italy
by the Italian colony at Montreal supported by the Italian consul.

Judge Saint-Pierre has been the organizer of the Canadian
Veterans as a body and has been their honorary president ever
since their organization some fourteen years ago.

His eminent ability as a legist led eventually to his appointment
to the bench. He was first named for the district of Beauharnois
on the retirement of Hon. Mr. Justice Belanger in June, 1902,
and was transferred to Montreal in March, 1909, so that he is
now presiding over the district of Montreal. His decisions are
strictly fair and impartial and render him the peer of the ablest
men who have presided over Montreal’s courts.

The Judge is a Roman Catholic of the broad liberal school. He is
known to be a great admirer of British institutions though much
attached to the French civil law which he holds to be superior to
the common law of England.

The press has united in passing high encomiums upon him. The
Montreal Herald styled him “a man of great vigor.” The Montreal
Star spoke of him as broad-minded and public-spirited. The
Toronto Star said “Judge Berryer-Saint-Pierre is gifted with fine
powers of eloquence and is broad-minded and tolerant.” Perhaps
his lofty patriotism is best indicated in his own utterance: “Be
English, be Scotch, be French, be Irish, if you will,” he often
said in his public utterance, “but above and before all, let us
all be Canadians.” Judge Saint-Pierre’s residence is at 2330 Park
Avenue, Montreal.


DONALD FORBES ANGUS.

Successfully operating in mercantile circles, Donald Forbes
Angus has also extended his efforts along those lines whereby
are promoted aesthetic culture and humanitarian interests, thus
rendering his life a serviceable factor in the world’s work. A
son of Richard Bladworth Angus, he was educated in England and
Germany and in February, 1894, was united in marriage to Miss
Mary Ethel Henshaw, the daughter of the late F. W. Henshaw.

In his business connections Mr. Angus has so directed his
efforts that substantial results have accrued, and he is today
a prominent figure in commercial circles as director of the
Intercolonial Coal Company and of the Paton Manufacturing
Company, both of which are important forces in the business
progress of the city. He is also director of the Bank of
Montreal; director of the Standard Life Assurance Company; and
vice president of the Guardian Accident & Guarantee Company.
In these connections Mr. Angus bends his efforts to executive
administration and control, and his ability to correctly judge
between the essential and the nonessential, utilizing the one
and discarding the other, and his power to coordinate seemingly
diverse elements into a harmonious whole have been strong
features in his growing success.

Mr. Angus is a popular member of several of the leading clubs
of Montreal, including St. James, Mount Royal and the Montreal
Jockey Clubs--associations which indicate much of the nature of
his interests and the source of his recreation. He is also a life
member of the Art Association and is a friend and patron of art.
He is likewise a governor and a member of the executive committee
of the Fraser Institute of Montreal.


HENRY HOLGATE.

Not only is Henry Holgate one of the foremost civil engineers
of Montreal, but he is also an author of no mean talents on
professional and other subjects. He is now engaged in private
practice after a long and strenuous career with various large
organizations and of late has designed and built several large
hydraulic power plants for transmission of electric power. He
is a member of several arbitration committees, a past vice
president of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, a member of
the American Society of Civil Engineers and a councillor of the
American Institute of Consulting Engineers.

Mr. Holgate is of English ancestry and was born at Milton,
Ontario, September 14, 1863, the seventh son of John and Jane
(Browne) Holgate, the former of whom was in charge of the
division court at Milton. Judge Holgate passed away in 1896 and
his wife in 1902.

Henry Holgate was educated in the Toronto public schools and
after having completed his studies served an apprenticeship
with the Northern Railway of Canada, which lasted for five
years. He continued with them for three years and became their
chief engineer in 1884, so continuing until 1893, when he took
charge of the Central Bridge Company’s works at Peterboro,
Ontario. During this time, in 1887, he became a member of the
Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, contributing a paper to
its transactions for which he was awarded the Gzowski medal. He
remained with the Central Bridge Company for about a year and
then joined the Royal Electrical Company in Montreal as engineer
in charge of the steel plants and general construction. The years
1896, 1897 and 1898 were spent that way, and he then became
engineer of the Montreal Park & Island Company, constructing and
managing all their lines. He then went as manager and engineer
to Kingston, Jamaica, and constructed all of the works of the
Western Electric Company there, returning to Canada in 1900.
He established himself in a private engineering practice in
that year and in 1902 formed a partnership with Mr. Ross, under
the firm name of Ross & Holgate, consulting engineers. This
partnership was dissolved in 1911.

Mr. Holgate has on various occasions been retained by the federal
and provincial governments for special engineering inquiries
and reports. He was so retained in regard to the reorganization
of the Trent Valley Canal works and was appointed chairman of
the royal commission to report on the collapse of the Quebec
bridge in September, 1907. He is widely recognized as one of the
able men along his line and has had charge in late years of the
building of several large hydraulic power plants.

Occasionally Mr. Holgate contributes interesting articles to
technical works. He is the author of an exhaustive paper on
Northeast Canada, which was published in 1908, and he has
lectured extensively, one of his subjects being “Some Facts
Regarding the Upper St. Lawrence.”

Mr. Holgate is independent in his political views and
nonsectarian in his religious belief. He is a patriotic Canadian
and has always at heart the interests of the Dominion. He
believes in a Canada for Canadians and for any others who
will become good citizens, recognizing the value of desirable
immigration.

On September 19, 1888, Mr. Holgate was married to Miss Bessie
Bell Headley, a daughter of Edward Headley, of Milford, Delaware.
They have two sons, Henry Watson and Edwin Headley. The family
residence is at No. 44 Rosemount Avenue, Westmount. He is a
member of the Engineers Club of Montreal.


LEGLEUS ANTOINE GAGNIER, M. D.

Dr. Légléus Antoine Gagnier is widely and favorably known to the
public as a general medical practitioner and more specifically
in connection with the special work which he does in treating
nervous diseases by electrical methods. He is a man who has
never ceased to be a student and still frequently makes trips
to Europe in order to attend the clinics conducted by the
most eminent specialists in the profession. There is no new
phase brought out in the world of medicine with which he is
not thoroughly acquainted and which he does not thoroughly
understand, and his complete knowledge has naturally resulted
in a large and lucrative practice. Freeing himself from many
of the old medical prejudices he applies modern thought in his
treatments and more closely follows his own logical conclusions
than book prescriptions. He believes that in numerous cases
massage treatments, X-Rays, light baths and general hydrotherapy
will achieve more beneficial and lasting results than the older
treatment of giving medicaments internally. His well equipped
offices, modernly appointed and filled with all the appliances
necessary to follow out his methods, are located at No. 256 St.
Denis Street, Montreal, and there ever can be found a long line
of patients, rich and poor, old and young, waiting to be admitted
for treatment.

Although the family of Gagnier is not among the very earliest
Canadian settlers, it is an old one. There were variations in the
name of Gagnier and extensive records show the name as Gagné and
Gagnesse in Abbé Tanguay’s Dictionnaire Généalogique.

Légléus Antoine Gagnier was born at Ste. Martine, in the county
of Chateauguay, on October 4, 1871, a son of François and
Sophie (Perras) Gagnier, both deceased. The doctor received his
classical education at Ste. Thérèse and St. Hyacinthe Seminaries
and graduated in medicine from Laval University in 1895. He
pursued special studies in Paris and has ever since continued
to attend clinics in that and other European cities. Capable,
earnest and conscientious, he has not only a reputation for
ability but enjoys the utmost confidence of his patients, to
whom he is more than a doctor, as they see in him their best and
truest friend. He is physician for a number of French and English
mutual associations and president of the Medical Board of Union
St. Pierre of Montreal.

[Illustration: DR. LEGLEUS A. GAGNIER]

On September 28, 1897, Dr. Gagnier was united in marriage to Miss
Delia Collerette, a daughter of O. Collerette, and they have the
following children, Yvonne, Légléus Adolphe, Gaston, Gabrielle,
Marie Régine, Germaine and Paul Emile.

The religious faith of Dr. Gagnier is that of the Roman Catholic
church. For many years he was a conservative in politics but of
late has allied himself with the nationalist movement, a party
which in scope of progressiveness stands foremost of the three
political organizations of the Dominion and has for its intention
the improvement of general conditions not only political and
governmental but also sociological. In the material growth of
Montreal Dr. Gagnier is interested as a director of the Greater
Montreal Land Investment Company, Limited. He has an interesting
military record to his credit and has been in command of the
Sixty-fourth Regiment of Chateauguay and Beauharnois for three
or four years and since January 23, 1901, he has been on the
officers reserve as lieutenant colonel. His deep love for mankind
finds expression in his public-spirited actions, and he is never
called upon in vain to give his support to any enterprise which
will benefit the people of his city or country. Careful of his
own interests, he is more minutely careful of those of others
and influenced at all times by the thought of the broader effect
which his work has upon his community, exemplifying in his
conduct the lofty ideals of his nation and of a noble calling. He
honors his profession by paying it honor and by his adherence to
the solid virtues and enlightened principles underlying it.


GEORGE STEPHEN CANTLIE.

A native of Montreal, George Stephen Cantlie was born May 2,
1867, a son of James Alexander and Eleanor Simpson (Stephen)
Cantlie. The father is a prominent merchant of Montreal and a son
of the late Francis Cantlie, a native of Mortlach, Banffshire,
Scotland, who married Mary Stuart. James Alexander Cantlie was
born June 5, 1836, and married in May, 1866, the second daughter
of the late William Stephen, of Montreal. J. A. Cantlie came to
Canada in 1863. He was for years head of the well known wholesale
dry-goods house of J. A. Cantlie & Company, which was founded
in 1868. He is connected with a number of important commercial
enterprises and is one of the foremost men in business circles in
Montreal.

George S. Cantlie received private tuition and attended the
Montreal high school and McGill University in the acquirement
of an education. In 1885 he entered the service of the Canadian
Pacific Railway as clerk in the audit department. He became
consecutively clerk in the comptroller’s office, chief clerk to
the assistant general manager, to the assistant president and
to the vice president. He was then made general baggage agent,
general stationary agent and superintendent of car service.
Since November, 1908, Mr. Cantlie has been at the head of the car
service as general superintendent.

Colonel Cantlie has for a number of years been connected with
the volunteer service. He has been lieutenant colonel in command
of the Fifth Regiment, Royal Highlanders of Canada, since May
11, 1905. He commanded this regiment at the Quebec Tercentenary
celebration in 1908 and at the Lake Champlain celebration at
Plattsburg, New York, in 1909, when he received high commendation
from President Taft on the splendid appearance of his men. In
1908 he was awarded the long service decoration.

In November, 1896, Mr. Cantlie was married to Miss Beatrice
Campbell, a daughter of the late W. D. Campbell, queen’s notary,
of Quebec. Mr. and Mrs. Cantlie make their home at No. 502
Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal. He is a member of the Mount
Royal, St. James, Montreal Hunt, Forest and Stream, Back River
Polo, Auto and Montreal Jockey Clubs. He also is enrolled in the
York Club of Toronto and is a member of the Montreal Amateur
Athletic Association.


CHARLES LYMAN.

One of the best known men in his line of business in Canada was
the late Charles Lyman, wholesale druggist, who died November
17, 1909, after a successful business career of nearly two
score years, all of which was spent in his native city. He was
born in Montreal, April 3, 1849, a son of Benjamin Lyman and
Delia A. Wells. These parents, both natives of the state of
Vermont, whose ancestry in the United States dated back almost
to the landing of the Mayflower, might account for the strong
interest in the affairs of that country which was one of the
pronounced characteristics of Mr. Lyman. He was educated in the
Montreal high school, the Hopkins grammar school of New Haven,
Connecticut, and Yale University, from which he graduated in the
class of 1871.

In his senior year at college he was elected a member of the
Scroll and Key Society, then as now one of the most coveted
distinctions outside of the purely academic sphere. He always
retained a very absorbing interest in the affairs of Yale,
returning almost annually to his class reunions.

After leaving college he entered his father’s business, Lyman,
Clare & Company, in which he shortly became a partner. This
business in 1879 was styled Lyman, Sons & Company, under which
name it was known until 1908, becoming incorporated then as
Lymans, Limited.

In 1887 Mr. Lyman together with James W. Knox and F. Gold
Lyman established the business of Lyman, Knox & Company, which
continued under this style until in 1906 it became part of the
National Drug & Chemical Company, Limited, of which corporation
Charles Lyman was secretary from its inception until he retired
from business in 1908. Mr. Lyman was of a studious disposition,
and his chief interest was perhaps centered in his family life.
He was known for his broad culture and was a close follower of
the public affairs of both the United States and Canada. Together
with the late Goldwin Smith he was a firm believer in the
eventual unity of political interest of these countries.

Mr. Lyman was married October 1, 1874, at Stelton, New Jersey,
to Kate Dean, daughter of the late Henry Dean of New York, who
survives him, together with their three children: C. Philip Lyman
and Frank D. Lyman, both of Montreal; and Ruth Delia, the wife of
William G. MacNaughton of Port Edwards, Wisconsin.

Mr. Lyman was a member of The University Club, of which he
was one of the founders and The Montreal Amateur Athletic
Association. He was a member of the American Presbyterian
church, the corner stone of the present edifice having been laid
by his father, Benjamin Lyman. The higher, better elements of
life always made strong appeal to him, and the principles which
governed his conduct make his example as a man and citizen one
well worthy of emulation.


FREDERIC ORR-LEWIS.

Frederic Orr-Lewis was born at Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. He is
the second son of the late William Thomas Lewis and Mary (Graham)
Lewis, and a grandson of the late William Lewis, sheriff of
Glamorganshire, Wales. The father was a shipowner in Canadian
Inland Lakes. William Thomas Lewis came to Canada from Swansea,
Wales, in 1852, locating at Hamilton. He became a prominent
figure on the inland lakes between Chicago and Kingston and was
a large shipowner. He retired from active business in 1890 and
moved to Montreal, where he departed this life in 1908. For more
than two decades he had survived his wife, who passed away in
1886.

Frederic Orr-Lewis was educated in Kingston, Ontario, and on
leaving school went with J. Muckleston & Company, wholesale
hardware merchants of the same city. He resigned from that
position to establish his own business in Kingston in 1888 and
removed the establishment to Montreal in 1889, associated with
his brothers James Graham Lewis and Thomas Graham Lewis. The firm
was then Lewis Brothers, which was later formed into the limited
liability company of Lewis Brothers, Limited, of which he is
still the president. From the beginning their trade has extended
to such an extent that they now occupy the entire eight-story
building which covers Nos. 20 to 42 inclusive on Bleury Street,
Montreal, with sales offices in Ottawa, Toronto and other western
cities. They have been recognized as one of the leading hardware
establishments of the Dominion.

Frederic Orr-Lewis is also a director of the Merchants’ Bank of
Canada and director of the Montreal Cotton Company and president
of Canadian Vickers, Limited, which is associated with the
English firm of Vickers, Sons & Maxim. In 1903 he was elected
to the presidency of the Dominion Wholesale Hardware Merchants’
Association.

On the 18th of June, 1896, at Christ church, Montreal, was
celebrated the marriage of F. Orr-Lewis and Maude Mary Helen
Booth, daughter of William Booth of London, Ontario. They now
have three children, a son and two daughters, John Duncan, Helen
Merryday and Mary-Graham. The religious faith of the family is
that of the Presbyterian church, Mr. and Mrs. Orr-Lewis holding
membership therein.

He is widely and popularly known in club circles, holding
membership in the leading organizations of that character in
Montreal, including the St. James, Canada, Forest and Stream,
Montreal Hunt, Montreal Jockey, Mount Royal, Montreal Royal Golf
and Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Clubs. He is likewise a member
of the Rideau Club of Ottawa, Ontario; and the Canada, the
Wellington and Junior Carlton Clubs of London, England.


EUGENE-REAL ANGERS.

Eugène-Réal Angers, a well known barrister and solicitor in
Montreal, was born in that city, October 1, 1883, a son of Réal
and Joséphine (Trudel) Angers, and a grandson of François-Réal
Angers, K. C., one of the leaders of the Quebec bar. The father,
Réal Angers, was born in Quebec and for many years was a member
of the wholesale hardware firm of Frothingham & Workman in
Montreal. He died December 22, 1901, and his widow passed away
in 1908. They were the parents of two sons and a daughter:
Eugène-R.; Charles, who is with Frothingham & Workman, Limited,
of Montreal; and Joséphine, the wife of Robert La Roque de
Roquebrune, of Beloeil, Quebec.

Eugène-Réal Angers was educated in Montreal, winning the Bachelor
of Arts degree upon the completion of a classical course in St.
Mary’s College. He was graduated from Laval University with the
degree of LL. L. in June, 1907. In July of that year he was
admitted to the bar at Quebec and soon after formed a partnership
for the practice of law in Montreal with Ernest Guimont under the
firm name of Guimont & Angers. A year later the senior partner
removed to St. Hyacinthe and Mr. Angers entered into other
partnership relations, leading to the adoption of the firm style
of Brosseau, Brosseau, Tansey & Angers. In September, 1913, he
joined with Howard Salter Ross, K. C., in forming the law firm
of Ross & Angers. They now have offices in the Transportation
building, where they care for the interests of a growing
clientele. Broad reading and study have constantly augmented Mr.
Angers’ ability to handle complex and intricate problems of law,
and he is becoming recognized as one of the ablest of the younger
representatives of the Montreal bar.

[Illustration: EUGENE-REAL ANGERS]

On the 15th of September, 1909, Mr. Angers was married to
Germaine Tousignant and they have one son, Pierre.


REV. THOMAS F. HEFFERNAN.

Rev. Thomas F. Heffernan is now in the sixth year of his able
service as pastor of St. Thomas Aquinas’ church in Montreal, a
parish which he has built up through his energy, zeal and well
directed enterprise into one of the most popular and well managed
in the city. He was born December 22, 1869, on Colborne
Street, in St. Anne’s parish, Montreal, a son of the late Thomas
and Ellen (Murray) Heffernan. In his infancy the parents moved
to the east end of the city, where the father purchased several
properties, some of these on Craig, Lagauchetiere and Dorion
Streets.

As a child Father Heffernan attended St. Bridget’s school,
taught by the Christian Brothers, and when he was twelve years
of age he entered St. Mary’s College. After one year and a half
he enrolled in St. Lawrence College, conducted by the Fathers
of the Holy Cross. Here success attended his efforts and in due
time he became professor. He afterward took a four years’ course
in the Grand Seminary and was ordained to the Roman Catholic
priesthood December 22, 1894, when he was twenty-five years of
age. His first appointment was with the Rev. William O’Meara,
pastor of St. Gabriel’s, with whom he remained for three years.
At the end of that time, at the request of His Grace Archbishop
Bruchesi he was appointed in September, 1898, professor extreme
at Montreal College and did excellent work in this field for
two years. Resigning at the end of that time, he was appointed
assistant to Rev. J. E. Donnelly, pastor of St. Anthony’s, and he
retained this connection for eight years, severing it in order to
accept the appointment to the newly-founded parish of St. Thomas
Aquinas. This was established for the English-speaking people
of the west end who were living within the district bounded on
the east by Atwater Avenue, on the west by the middle of Cote
St. Paul Road, on the south by the canal and on the north by the
Canadian Pacific Railroad track. There were about three hundred
families; about one hundred residing between Atwater and Rose
de Lima Streets, who belonged to St. Anthony’s parish; and two
hundred attached to St. Henry’s. For a number of years previous
there had been dissatisfaction among the St. Henry’s portion
inasmuch as it was difficult for the Rev. Canon Decary to meet
their needs satisfactorily. Accordingly a new parish was formed
and placed in charge of Father Heffernan, who has since made St.
Thomas Aquinas one of the most important Catholic congregations
in the diocese. He has accomplished during the period of his
incumbency a great deal of remarkable work. He had no money and
he required fifteen thousand dollars to pay for the ground. He
secured thirty thousand dollars from the Travelers Insurance
Company and fifteen thousand dollars from Molson’s Bank and
erected a thirty-five thousand dollar building now used as a
church. The structure is two stories in height and so constructed
that an additional two stories may be added if necessary. Father
Heffernan also erected an attractive residence and has now a
property valued at one hundred and fifty thousand dollars and a
debt of only thirty thousand dollars. During the year of 1914 he
is to build a new church of Florentine style of architecture,
on Convent Street. When asked to explain how this work was
accomplished Father Heffernan said: “God has visited his people
and this people received him. My people work from conviction,
illumined by the light of faith. I have no sick, no infirm, no
needy. Health, wealth and blessings are ours. But you must leave
here. Never, until they sing my Mass of Requiem. I attribute the
whole success to the prayers of the children and to the good work
of my Reverend assistant, Father Polan.”

Father Heffernan gives all of his time and attention to the
affairs of his parish, working zealously and conscientiously in
the promotion of the spiritual and material interests of his
congregation. He has indeed accomplished a wonderful work at St.
Thomas Aquinas and has the love of his people in large measure
as well as the high regard and warm confidence of people of all
denominations.


THOMAS BUSBY.

Thomas Busby, an old time Montreal merchant and in his day well
known in connection with the retail hardware trade, was born in
Montreal, a grandson of Thomas Busby, who was the founder of the
family in Canada.

This first Thomas Busby came from Ireland and had charge of
landscape gardening for the Baroness of Longueuil. He became a
man of considerable property for those days. His daughter married
Dr. Digby of Brantford, Ontario, and their daughter became the
wife of Dr. Henwood of Brantford. Thomas Busby had a son Thomas,
who married Mary Lacasse, and they were the parents of Thomas
Busby of this review.

Thomas Busby, the third, was educated in the schools of Montreal
and when a young man began to learn the hardware business in this
city. He later lived for a few years in what was then called
Upper Canada but in 1857 returned to Montreal and established
himself in the hardware business, which he successfully conducted
until his death, which occurred April 20, 1862.

Mr. Busby was married in Montreal in June, 1853, to Miss E. C.
Greene, a daughter of Thomas J. Greene, who came to this city
in early life from Saratoga, New York. He was a furrier and was
for years at the head of the firm of Thomas Greene & Son, while
later the sons continued the business under the style of Greene
& Sons. Mr. and Mrs. Busby became the parents of four children,
but the only one now living is Fred Busby, a resident of Denver,
Colorado. Mrs. Busby still makes her home in Montreal, where she
has now resided for more than six decades, witnessing therefore
much of the development and modern progress of the city, and she
is one of the highly esteemed of Montreal’s older residents.


GEORGES MAYRAND.

Through individual effort and ability Georges Mayrand has
attained to a position of prominence as a representative of the
notarial profession in Montreal, being now senior partner in the
firm of Mayrand, Loranger, Ecrement & Melancon. A native of Port
Neuf county, he was born at Grondines, on the 21st of August,
1876, and was educated under Jesuit instruction, attending St.
Mary’s College of Montreal and afterward Laval University, in
which he pursued the study of law, winning his B. L. degree on
the completion of his law course in 1900. Having determined
to concentrate his energies upon practice as a notary public,
he opened an office in Montreal in September following his
graduation and has created and developed an important business
at No. 99 St. James Street. He has been joined by others as his
clientage has grown until he is now head of the firm of Mayrand,
Loranger, Ecrement & Melancon. He has also taken an active and
helpful part in promoting the growth and progress of the city and
is associated with several land companies, including the Greater
Montreal Land Company, the Summerlea Realty Company and the Sault
au Recollet Island Company. He has become thoroughly conversant
with property values, readily recognizes a possible rise or
diminution in realty prices and accordingly makes his investments
so that he has secured good returns from his property holdings.

Mr. Mayrand’s public service has also included prompt and
faithful discharge of the duties of alderman, he being elected
to that position from the Delorimier ward and his efficiency was
rewarded by reelection in April, 1914. He has likewise filled
the office of school commissioner and coming prominently before
the public in these positions has made an excellent record,
creditable to himself and satisfactory to his supporters. In
politics he is a liberal and in addition to the local offices he
has filled he is representing Dorion county in the provincial
legislature. He is now vice president and secretary of the
Club Delorimier, is a member of the National Amateur Athletic
Association and takes an exceedingly active interest in outdoor
sports. He is a typical man of the times, alert and energetic
in action, progressive in purpose and thoroughly alive to the
opportunities which are presented for business advancement and
public improvement.


REV. GERALD FRANCIS JOSEPH MCSHANE.

The Roman Catholic church numbers among its most distinguished
representatives in Canada Rev. Gerald Francis Joseph McShane,
pastor of St. Patrick’s church in Montreal and one of the best
known lecturers and preachers in this province. He has been
identified with religious activity in this city since 1900 and
has since that time accomplished a great deal of constructive
work here, his lectures, his eloquent preaching, his organizing
and administrative activities constituting forces in the later
development in Montreal of the doctrines in which he believes.

He was born in this city, December 5, 1872, and is a son of
Michael and Margaret (Loftus) McShane, of Irish origin. In the
acquirement of an education he attended Belmont school, the
Archbishop’s Academy and Montreal College and later the Grand
Seminary in that city, supplementing this by a four years’ course
of study in Paris and Rome, receiving in the latter city degrees
in philosophy and divinity. In 1896 he joined the Sulpician Order
of this city and the same year left to complete his studies
at St. Sulpice in Paris. In 1897 he was ordained priest, and
three years later, in 1900, returned to Canada as curate of St.
Patrick’s church, Montreal. For three years he did able work
in that capacity and was then transferred to Notre Dame church
in this city, where his sermons delivered in both French and
English attracted much attention, they first bringing him into
prominence as an orator. He has since that time become one of the
most eloquent and widely known speakers in the city and is in
great demand for lectures, sermons or orations of any kind. Since
December, 1907, he has been pastor of St. Patrick’s church in
Montreal and his address at his inaugural was regarded as more
than an ordinary piece of tact and eloquence. Since that time
he has carried forward a great deal of earnest and consecrated
work in the management of his parish, which, being an important
one, requires at its head a man of wide attainments, broad
knowledge and discriminating business ability--qualities which
Father McShane possesses in an unusual degree. He has been one
of the greatest individual forces in the development of Catholic
institutions in Montreal, having founded the Columbian Club, a
social organization for Catholic students of McGill University.
He is also a director and trustee of St. Patrick’s Orphanage. His
congregation is one of the largest and most important in Montreal
and its prestige is continually increasing as Father McShane’s
ability as a pastor, a business man, an organizer and an orator
becomes more widely recognized.

One of the city’s most brilliant, sincere and earnest Christian
gentlemen, he occupies an enviable place in the regard of
his parishioners and, indeed, of all who know him. The late
Judge Curran, speaking of him, called him “a man of scholarly
attainments, of fine tastes, of patriotic impulses and of
considerable gifts as a speaker,” and this opinion is almost
uniformly held throughout Montreal, where Father McShane has
always made his home.


THIBAUDEAU RINFRET, K. C.

Thibaudeau Rinfret, a prominent and successful advocate of
Montreal, brought to the outset of his career certain rare gifts,
a strong individuality, laudable ambition and the indefatigable
energy without which success and honors are seldom won by
representatives of the bar. His advancement has been continuous
and his energies have been largely concentrated upon his
professional duties.

He was born in Montreal June 22, 1879, a son of F. O. R. and
Alvina R. (Pominville) Rinfret, the former an advocate of
Montreal, while the latter was a daughter of the late F. P.
Pominville, Q. C., and a law partner of the late Sir G. E.
Cartier, baronet. Having attended St. Mary’s (Jesuit) College,
from which he was graduated on completion of the arts course with
the B. A. degree in 1897, Mr. Rinfret afterward entered McGill
University and won his B. C. L. degree in 1900. He was created
king’s counsel in 1912, a fact indicative of the success which he
has achieved in his law practice. He entered upon the active work
of the profession in 1901 and successfully followed law practice
at St. Jerome in partnership with Hon. Jean Prevost until 1910.
Upon the appointment of Charles Archer, K. C., to the bench he
joined the firm headed by J. L. Perron, K. C. The firm is now
Perron, Taschereau, Rinfret, Genest, Billette & Plimsoll, and
Mr. Rinfret has been connected with it since 1910. He carefully
prepares his cases and is seldom at fault in the application
of a legal principle, while his analytical ability enables him
to readily understand the relation of cause and effect. Since
1902 he has been attorney for County Terrebonne for the inland
revenue department, and he contested Terrebonne in the liberal
interests at the federal general election of 1908 against the
Hon. W. B. Nantel, now minister of inland revenue. Though his
party was in the minority, he failed to secure the seat by only
seventy-nine votes. Mr. Rinfret has rendered valuable service to
the liberal party of whose principles he is a strong supporter.

[Illustration: THIBAUDEAU RINFRET]

The zeal with which he has devoted his energies to his
profession, the careful regard evinced for the interests of his
clients and an unrelaxing attention to all the details of his
cases, have won him an enviable and well merited reputation.
His acquaintance is wide, and he has a host of friends whose
high regard he has gained through his professional ability,
his deference to the opinions of others, his genial manner and
unfailing courtesy.

Mr. Rinfret was married to Miss Georgine Rolland, a daughter
of J. B. Rolland, of Montreal, where they make their home. Mr.
Rinfret holds membership in the Catholic church.


CLARENCE I. DE SOLA.

The great industrial undertakings which have led to the
substantial development and upbuilding of Canada have found a
prominent representative in Clarence I. de Sola, today regarded
as one of the foremost men engaged in public works and in
shipbuilding in Canada. Moreover, he is prominent in the consular
service and is a recognized leader in various movements for the
improvement of the economic condition of the Hebrew people, some
of his work in that direction being of world-wide significance.
Montreal numbers him among her worthy and honored native sons,
his birth having occurred here on the 15th of August, 1858. He is
a member of an ancient and illustrious Jewish family that long
resided in Spain, where it produced many distinguished men. He
is the third son of the late Rev. Abraham de Sola, LL. D., who
was one of the most eminent and scholarly exponents of orthodox
Judaism in America and an author of international repute.

Liberal educational opportunities were accorded the subject of
this sketch, and his life has been one of steadily expanding and
increasing usefulness. Step by step he has advanced in business
connections, and in 1887 he was made managing director of the
Comptoir Belgo-Canadien, a syndicate of the leading Belgian
manufacturers of steel and other structural material and builders
of bridges, railroads and canal locks. The syndicate includes the
famous Cockerill Works, of Seraing, employing eighteen thousand
hands. His duties and responsibilities in this direction are most
important. He secured and executed contracts in the building of
the Soulanges and Trent canals, in re-laying large portions of
the track of the Inter-Colonial Railway and the Prince Edward
Island Railway, and in the construction of many of our largest
public bridges. He was associated with the engineers Lafontaine
and Lemoine in the construction of the Brock Street tunnel. It
was largely due to his efforts that hydraulic lift locks were
first used in American or Canadian canals.

It was in recognition of the ability he had shown in developing
commercial relations between Belgium and Canada that Mr. de Sola
was appointed, in 1904, vice consul for Belgium at Montreal, and
his work in helping to negotiate the arrangement between the
Belgian and Canadian governments, whereby the benefits of the
intermediate Canadian customs tariff was secured for Belgian
manufacturers, was rewarded by his advancement, in 1911 to the
full rank of consul.

Extensive as have been Mr. de Sola’s efforts in connection with
Belgian trade, he has also employed his energies in other fields,
for he is the managing director of the Canadian office of Swan,
Hunter and Wigham Richardson, Ltd., the great shipbuilders
of Wallsend-on-Tyne, and he has undertaken and executed many
contracts for the building of a large number of ships for traffic
on the Canadian Great Lakes, the River St. Lawrence and the
Atlantic oceans, amounting in all to quite a large fleet. The
Canadian government has also had several ships built for its
service by contracts awarded to Mr. de Sola, including some very
fine vessels for hydrographic survey work, that have made their
way through the ice-bound waters of Hudson’s Bay in dangerous
seasons. The first ship ever seen in American waters, or that
ever crossed the Atlantic ocean propelled by oil combustion
engines, was built by Swan Hunter and Wigham Richardson for Mr.
de Sola as consignee. It was the ship Toiler, and it was run by
Mr. de Sola on the St. Lawrence and lake route until sold by
him to James Playfair. An improvement on the Toiler, the ship
Calgary, was built during the following year and these were the
first Diesel oil combustion engined vessels to run in Canadian
waters.

Clarence de Sola is a director of the Reid-Donald Steamship
Company, of which he is the Canadian manager, and he is also a
director of the Farrar Transportation Company.

Mr. de Sola has become widely known as a leading factor in the
world-embracing Zionist Movement, for the settlement in Palestine
of the persecuted Jews emigrating from Russia and other eastern
European countries and for the restoration of the Holy Land as
the national home of the Hebrew race. He was for a long period on
the Actions Committee, which is the supreme governing council of
the Zionist Movement, and for many years has been president of
the Federation of Zionist Societies of Canada. This federation
is a huge organization having branch societies in about sixty
different cities and towns throughout the Dominion, and is the
most representative Jewish body in Canada. It was through his
initiative and foresight that the Zionists of Canada, at their
eleventh convention, established a special fund for purchasing
land in Palestine on which to settle Jewish colonists and two
Jewish colonies in the Holy Land owe their existence entirely to
this measure. The Canadian Century has aptly styled him “the head
and shoulders of the Zionist Movement in Canada.” He has also
figured prominently in the Zionist International Congresses.

Mr. de Sola is a recognized authority on Jewish history, more
especially the early records of the Jews of this country, to
which he has given years of research. A number of his articles
on this subject have appeared in print. He is an honorary
corresponding member of the American-Jewish Historical Society
and member of the Anglo-Jewish Historical Society. When Funk
& Wagnalls published the Jewish Encyclopedia Mr. de Sola was
selected to be one of the writers of the articles on Jewish
history and his contributions are to be found in most of the
twelve volumes. One of his most salient characteristics is his
loyalty to any cause which he espouses. Men have learned to know
that what he promises he will do, that what he undertakes he will
execute, and to all his work he brings the correct principles
of business; accomplishing with dispatch, with accuracy and
decision that which he sets out to do. He does not confine his
efforts to institutions for the benefit of those of his own
race. In fact his work has always been broad and nonsectarian in
character and any call for humanity’s sake has met with ready
response from him. He is a governor of the Montreal General
Hospital and an officer of numerous philanthropic societies. He
is the presiding warden (Parnas) of the Corporation of Spanish
and Portuguese Jews of Montreal, the handsome design of whose
synagogue building is due to the architectural taste of Mr. de
Sola, a taste which also made itself felt in the striking beauty
and individuality of his own home.

In 1901 Mr. de Sola was married to Miss Belle Maud Goldsmith,
daughter of Leopold Goldsmith, a prominent citizen of Cleveland,
Ohio. She completed a collegiate course with the Bachelor of
Arts degree, and is an active officer of various organizations,
including among nonsectarian ones the Victorian Order of Nurses,
the Royal Edward Institute, the Needlework Guild and many others.
Among Jewish societies she is founder of the Daughters of Zion in
Canada and of the Women’s League for Cultural Work in Palestine.
She also was one of those who organized the Friendly League of
Jewish Women, of which she was the first president. She has
written several absorbingly interesting literary articles, among
them being “The Higher Education of Women,” “The Origin of the
French Salon,” and “The Jew--Imaginary and Real.”

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence de Sola’s home, on Pine Avenue, is one
of the most beautiful in Montreal. It is a splendid example of
Saracenic architecture, such as is seen in southern Spain. In
both its general outlines and in its rich ornamental details
it is an exquisite specimen of the highest form of Andalusian
art. It is a home that is additionally attractive by reason of a
gracious and cordial hospitality.


EDOUARD GOHIER.

There is probably no other line of business that is equal as a
factor in a city’s growth and development to the real-estate
business when conducted by men who are reliable and who aim to
develop only properties of merit and value. Included among such
men in Montreal is Edouard Gohier, senior member of Edouard
Gohier & Company. Mr. Gohier has been connected with a number of
the largest high-class suburban property deals that have taken
place around Montreal in recent years. His long experience in
that line of business, as well as his straightforward business
methods, has secured for him a high position in real-estate and
financial circles.

Mr. Gohier comes from one of the oldest families in the
province of Quebec and was born April 29, 1861, at St. Martin,
Laval county, his parents being Benjamin and Celina (Crevier)
Gohier. Mr. Gohier’s early life was spent on a farm, but when
about twenty-two years old he entered business circles in
connection with the dry-goods trade at St. Laurent and was thus
engaged about seven years. He then turned his attention to
the real-estate business in that town and Cartierville, later
opening an office in Montreal. For sixteen years he served as
mayor of St. Laurent and has always taken a deep interest in
public affairs in that town. Among the larger deals negotiated
by Edouard Gohier & Company of late years have been La Cie des
Boulevards de l’Ile de Montreal and the sale to the Canadian
Northern Land Company of the land for the Model City, a suburb
of Montreal, transactions that have been profitable to the
principals and valuable acquisitions to the city. Mr. Gohier is
managing director of the Northmount Land Company as well as one
of the original promoters of the company. His connection with
public interests has been of value in various lines and always
marked by the same careful consideration given his own business
affairs. He is a director of Notre Dame Hospital and of Le
Devoir, while in March, 1914, he was appointed by the federal
government as a member of the Georgian Bay Canal Commission. In
political matters he is a supporter of the conservative party,
while his religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic church.

Mr. Gohier married at St. Laurent Phomela Gosselin, a daughter of
Narcise Gosselin, and to them have been born thirteen children,
eight of whom are living. Horace, a graduate of St. Lawrence
College, later attended Notre Dame University of South Bend,
Indiana. Aside from his connection with the firm of Edouard
Gohier & Company he is a member of the firm of Gohier & Bigras,
who handle city properties, Laval on the Lake and the properties
of the Montreal Extension Land Company. He is likewise a director
of the Montreal Turnpike Trust. Politically he is a conservative
and is an alderman of the town of St. Laurent. His wife bore
the maiden name of Rosa Jasmin. The other children of Edouard
and Phomela (Gosselin) Gohier are as follows: Joseph, a farmer
of St. Laurent, who married Alice Valois; Ernest, a graduate of
McGill University, who married Berthe Mont Briant of Montreal
and who is a civil engineer and a partner of F. C. Laberge of
Montreal; Edouard, a graduate of St. Lawrence College, who has
taken post-graduate work in Notre Dame University at South Bend,
Indiana, and is now a lumber merchant of St. Laurent; Amanda, who
married J. Bruno Nantel; Yvonne; Lorette; and Leo.

Mr. Gohier has always resided in St. Laurent, while his summer
home is in Cartierville. Among his individual holdings of real
estate in St. Laurent is a valuable stock farm of five hundred
acres. He is a successful business man whose career has been
marked by honorable methods and whose progressive ideas in
educational and civic matters have long since caused him to be
numbered among the valued and respected citizens of his town.


JOSEPH EMERY-CODERRE.

Joseph Emery-Coderre, a well known notary of Montreal, was born
April 14, 1880, at Ste. Anne de Stukely, in Shefford county,
Quebec, and is descended from an old family of St. Antoine on the
Richelieu river. He is a grandnephew of Dr. J. Emery-Coderre, who
was a professor at Victoria and Laval Universities in Montreal.

J. Emery-Coderre, father of him whose name introduces this
review, removed to Indian Orchard, Massachusetts, 1882 and to
Woonsocket, Rhode Island, in 1886 and there the son was educated
in the parochial school, while from 1892 until 1897 he attended
the Brothers of Mary school at Waterloo, Quebec, and from
September, 1897, to January, 1898, the Seminary of St. Hyacinthe.
In April, 1898, he returned to Woonsocket, Rhode Island, and
for two years was employed in the Globe Cotton Mills, old Braid
Shop, and by the American Wringer Company. In 1900 he left the
mills to continue his education at the Séminaire of St. Marie de
Monnoir at Marieville, Quebec, remaining there for six years. In
1906 he won his Bachelor of Arts degree from Laval University
and during the ensuing two years he clerked in the office of
Boisseau & Bazinet, notaries at St. Hyacinthe, Quebec. During the
succeeding two years he studied at Laval University and clerked
in the office of Biron & Savignac, notaries. Thus alternating
business activity with the acquirement of an education, he
at length reached a position that enabled him to pass the
examination before the board of notaries on the 10th of July,
1910. Immediately afterward he became a member of the firm of
Biron & Savignac, notaries, with offices at 99 St. James Street,
Montreal, the said firm having now another member and being known
as Biron, Savignac, Coderre & Poirier.

[Illustration: JOSEPH EMERY-CODERRE]

J. Emery-Coderre is secretary and treasurer of the corporation
of Montreal East and is a member of the Montreal East Land
Company. At the same time the firm with which he is connected is
accorded an extensive clientage, and thus his professional and
business interests are important. He has made wise use of time,
talents and opportunities, and his ability has advanced him to an
enviable position.

On the 12th of October, 1910, J. Emery-Coderre was married at
St. Hyacinthe to Bertha Tetrault, a daughter of François Xavier
Tetrault, and they have become parents of two children, François
Xavier and Maurice. J. Emery-Coderre is a member of the Club
Champetre Canadien. A young man, he has won popularity in both
professional and social circles, and he now has a wide and
favorable acquaintance in Montreal.


HON. COLONEL SIR RODOLPHE FORGET, M. P.

“One of the most powerful men in financial circles in Canada; he
can make and unmake and has seldom been beaten in a financial
battle.” Thus wrote the Canadian Courier concerning one of the
foremost French-Canadian citizens of Montreal--Colonel Joseph
David Rodolphe Forget, better known as Sir Rodolphe Forget,
banker, broker and legislator. He was born at Terrebonne,
Province of Quebec, December 10, 1861, and while spending his
youthful days in the home of his parents, David and Angele
(Limoges) Forget, he attended Masson College. In early manhood he
established a home of his own through his marriage in October,
1885, to Mlle. Alexandra Tourville. Subsequent to her death he
was married, in April, 1894, to Miss Blanche, youngest daughter
of the late A. R. McDonold, a stock broker of Quebec. Lady Forget
is prominent in charitable and benevolent circles, being a
director of the Montreal Day Nursery and the Notre Dame Hospital,
while in 1909 she was elected vice president of the Women’s
Canadian Club.

Sir Rodolphe Forget’s active connection with financial affairs
began in 1890, when he joined the Montreal Stock Exchange,
of which he was chosen chairman in 1908, continuing in that
position until 1911, when he resigned. He was for a time
connected with the business of L. J. Forget & Company, the
senior partner being the late Hon. L. J. Forget. In 1909 a
branch house was established in Paris and as banker and broker
Sir Rodolphe Forget has attained prominence equal to that which
has come to him in connection with public affairs. Many of the
extensive and important corporation interests of Canada have
been quickened and stimulated through his cooperation, while
his sound judgment has constituted a controlling force in their
management. He is president of the Quebec and Saguenay Railway,
the Quebec Railway Light, Heat & Power Company; vice president
of the Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company; and director of the
Toronto Railway Company, the Quebec Gas Company, the Sterling
Coal Company, Limited, the Canadian General Electric Company, and
the St. Lawrence Flour Mills Company. He was formerly president
of the Richelieu & Ontario Navigation Company, the Eastern Canada
Steel & Iron Works, Limited, the Royal Electric Company, and
the Mount Royal Assurance Company; and vice president of the
Canadian Securities Corporation and La Société d’Administration
Générale; and director of the Duluth Street Railway Company,
the Montreal-London Securities Corporation, the Black Lake
Consolidated Asbestos Company, the Union Brewery Company,
the Murray-Bay Lumber & Pulp Company, the City Central Real
Estate Company, the Montreal Smelting & Reduction Company, the
Prudential Trust Company, the Wayagamack Pulp & Paper Company,
the Crown Life Insurance Company, the Canada Marconi Wireless
Telegraph Company, the Payne Consolidated Mining Company, La
Banque Provinciale and Le Journal. In 1911 he founded La Banque
Internationale du Canada. He was rated as a millionaire by the
Montreal Star in 1907, which in itself is a testimonial of his
power as a financier. In 1911 he headed the navigation merger. He
has also been connected with the Canada Car Foundry Company, the
Industrial Development Company, the Butte Central Copper Company,
and the Montmorency Cotton Mills Company. All these indicate
something of the wonderful scope of his business interests and
activity and yet by no means give a complete record of his
interest and his efforts, which have been equally strong forces
in the control, development and upbuilding of organizations
having to do with the public welfare. In 1911 he made a gift
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the Notre Dame
Hospital, of which he is a director. He is also president of
the Province of Quebec Rifle Association, and he was appointed
honorary lieutenant colonel of the Sixty-fifth Carabiniers,
“Mount Royal” of Montreal in 1907, and was promoted to honorary
colonel in March, 1914. He is a director of the Canadian National
Bureau of Breeding and is a life governor of the Antiquarian
and Numismatic Society. He was vice president of Credit Foncier
Franco-Canadien. He has been a member of the executive committee
of the Canadian Handicrafts Guild of Montreal, holding the office
in 1908.

In politics an independent-conservative, Sir Rodolphe Forget
has sat for Charlevoix in the house of commons since 1904. In
1911 he was elected for Charlevoix and Montmorency--said to be
the first occasion in the history of the Dominion in which a
member in opposition was elected for two constituencies. He was
offered a portfolio when Premier Borden formed his cabinet, but
declined. He believes in a direct contribution from Canada for
the imperial navy and opposed the Taft-Fielding reciprocity
pact. His religious faith is that of the Roman Catholic church.
In club circles he is well known as a member of the Mount Royal,
the St. James, Club Lafontaine, Club Canadien, Club St. Denis,
Canada, Montreal, Montreal Jockey, Montreal Hunt, Canadian,
Forest and Stream, Montreal Curling, Montreal Military Institute,
Royal Montreal Golf, Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Clubs, of Montreal,
and the Garrison Club of Quebec, in many of which he has held
official positions. He has been termed “the young Napoleon of St.
François Xavier Street.” He has manifested Napoleonic powers in
other connections and his strength, power and resource have given
him the position of honor and distinction which he now occupies.
His residence is at No. 71 Ontario Avenue, and his summer home is
“Gil Mont,” St. Irenee les Bains, Quebec.


FITZ-JAMES E. BROWNE.

One of the best known citizens of Montreal whose reputation in
business is international is Fitz-James E. Browne, president of
the famous and highly successful firm known as “The House of
Browne, Limited,” real-estate experts, auctioneers, architects
and fire insurance agents. He was born in Montreal on the 22d of
September, 1871, a son of the late John James and Agnes Dunlop
(Hay) Browne, and comes of Irish and Scotch ancestry. He acquired
his early education at the McTavish school and afterward attended
Lincoln College at Sorel, province of Quebec.

After leaving school Mr. Browne became associated in the
architectural profession with his father and soon after the
death of the latter, in 1893, Fitz-James E. Browne engaged in
the real-estate business, continuing the firm name of John
James Browne until 1894, when the present title of “The House
of Browne, Limited” was assumed, and no real-estate firm in the
Dominion is as widely known. Mr. Browne’s advertising measures
are both progressive and aggressive as well as unique. He has
been a pioneer in methods that others attempt to imitate. As
a real-estate auctioneer it is doubtful if he has an equal.
He has officiated at the biggest sales on record in Canada
and holds the proud honor of having sold the highest priced
property per foot in Montreal. He possesses a comprehensive and
accurate knowledge of values as well as a thorough and practical
understanding of all the intricacies of the real-estate business
in the city, and his upright business methods have won him the
esteem and confidence of all. His knowledge of architecture from
both the scientific and practical standpoint is broad, and as a
real-estate expert he stands in the front rank. He is frequently
called upon to address meetings of real-estate dealers and
deliver lectures upon real-estate selling in both Canada and the
United States.

Mr. Browne was married in August, 1896, to Miss Sarsie Geraldine
Nagle of Montreal. Her tragic death, resulting from injuries
sustained in being struck by a tram car, occurred on November 15,
1913. She is survived by two sons: John James Ethelbert and Henry
Shewbridge Bashford.

Like the majority of progressive business men of the day, Mr.
Browne keeps well informed on leading questions and issues, but
does not seek nor desire the honors and emoluments of office,
preferring to concentrate his attention upon his business
affairs. In his younger days he devoted much time to amateur
sport, in which he still retains deep interest. As a member
of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association he was foremost
in opposition to the introduction of professionalism into the
organization. He was a prime factor in the organization of the
St. Patrick’s Amateur Athletic Association and has since been its
leading spirit. Mr. Browne is a very public-spirited man and any
movement for the advancement of the city, province or Dominion
finds in him a most hearty supporter.


PAUL BRISSET DES NOS.

Prominent in real-estate circles of Montreal is Paul Brisset
des Nos, whose activities in that field have had an important
bearing upon the growth of the city. He has successfully handled
important deals and has been connected with some of the largest
transactions consummated in real estate. At present he is manager
of the L’Alliance Immobilière, Incorporated, which he established
in 1912 and which is capitalized at one hundred thousand dollars.
He is among the successful Parisians who have selected Montreal
as their field of labor, and yet he often visits the land of his
birth. Having had all the advantages of an excellent education,
he understands mankind and judges conditions correctly, and these
features are largely the corner stone of his success. He was born
in Paris, November 17, 1873, and comes of a distinguished family,
his father being André Brisset des Nos, for many years manager
for La Foncière, Paris, and his mother Clémentine Hébert de la
Rousselière.

Paul Brisset des Nos enjoyed the advantages of a classical
course, attending the College of the Jesuits in his native city,
located at the rue de Madrid, and also the school of the same
order at the rue Bleury at Montreal. He made his first step into
the business world as partner of his father, who was engaged in
the wholesale wine and liquor business at 23 Gosford Street,
Montreal, the business being conducted under the name of André
Brisset & Fils. He was connected with this firm for six years but
in 1906 he opened a real-estate office. For about seven years he
was located at Pointe-aux-Trembles but subsequently gave much
of his time to two tracts of land which he had acquired in the
district of the Rivière des Prairies, which he subdivided into
eighteen hundred lots, all of which have been disposed of today.
Among other enterprises he was concerned in the building of
four butter factories near Montreal. In 1912 he established and
incorporated the L’Alliance Immobilière, with a capital of one
hundred thousand dollars, and has since been manager thereof. He
is a number of the Montreal Real Estate Exchange.

On the 11th of February, 1901, at Montreal, Mr. Brisset des Nos
was united in marriage to Miss Yvonne Lareau, a daughter of the
late Edmond Lareau, deputy of Rouville. Mr. and Mrs. Brisset des
Nos have the following children: Paul, ten years of age; Aliette,
aged eight; Yves six; and Madeleine, three.

It is conceded on all sides that realty activities largely
contribute to the growth of a community and in that way Mr.
Brisset des Nos has participated in the development and
commercial expansion of Montreal. He is public-spirited and takes
a deep interest in any forward movement promoted in the cause
of the general welfare. Although he has been connected with
real-estate transactions for a comparatively short time, he has
made his influence felt in that field to such an extent that his
opinions and advice are often sought by investors. L’Alliance
Immobilière, founded upon a solid basis, may well look toward a
prosperous future under the able management of Mr. Brisset des
Nos, whose wide experience and sound judgment are among the most
important assets of the corporation.

[Illustration: PAUL BRISSET DES NOS]


HON. SIR LOMER GOUIN.

Hon. Sir Lomer Gouin, a distinguished representative of the
Montreal bar and a statesman whose grasp of affairs has made him
largely master of situations affecting government interests, was
born at Grondines, P. Q., March 19, 1861, a son of Dr. J. N.
and Victorie Seraphine (Fugere) Gouin. The family has long been
established in this province. Sir Lomer Gouin in the attainment
of his education attended successfully Sorel College, Levis
College and the Laval University. He won his LL. B. degree in
1884 and in 1902 the honorary degree of LL. D. was conferred upon
him while McGill also created him an LL. D. in 1911. He pursued
his law studies under the direction of the late Sir John Abbot
and the late Hon. R. Laflamme, two of the most eminent members
of the bar of Montreal. Passing the required examinations, Sir
Lomer Gouin was admitted to practice as an advocate in 1884, and
his advancement in his profession has brought him to a position
of leadership at the provincial bar. He was at one time a law
partner of Judge Pagnuelo and afterward of the late Hon. H.
Mercier. His knowledge of the law is comprehensive and exact and
in the application of its principles he has proven himself one of
the ablest representatives of the bar in Montreal. He was elected
batonnier-general of the provincial bar in 1910, was appointed
an officer of de l’Institut Public of France in 1902 and also
of the Legion of Honor in 1907. Aside from his profession, he
is known in financial circles as a director of the Royal Trust
Company, of the Montreal City and District Savings Bank and of
the Mount Royal Assurance Company. The Venerable Archdeacon Kerr
characterized him as “a straightforward business man,” and in all
his career he has never deviated from high standards of manhood
and citizenship.

In 1908 he was knighted by King George at the Quebec Tercentenary
celebration. His public service has been of an important
character and is of wide scope, and in 1898 he was appointed
a member of the council of public instruction, P. Q., and in
1910 was elected president of the North American Fish and Game
Protective Association. He has likewise been president of the
Canadian Camp. In 1900 he was chosen an alderman of Montreal
and exercises his official prerogatives in support of various
measures for the general good. Mr. Gouin is a liberal in
politics and for some years has been active in the party. He
unsuccessfully contested Richelieu for the House of Commons at
the general election in 1891, and he sat for Montreal, St. James
division, in the local house in 1897-1908. Since then he has
sat for Port Neuf. He is regarded as an administrator of breadth
of view, great knowledge and ability and unimpeachable probity.
From 1900 until 1904 Sir Lomer Gouin was commissioner of public
works under the Parent administration, and since March 23, 1905,
has been premier and attorney-general for the province of Quebec.
An eminent statesmen has characterized him as “the greatest
prime minister the province has ever known.” His comprehensive
knowledge of the law and his ready grasp of affairs, combined
with his unfaltering loyalty to the best interests of government,
classes him with the most prominent Canadian statesmen. In 1906
he was chairman of the Ottawa Inter-Provincial Conference and
was a delegate thereto in 1910. He has edited a special edition
of the Quebec Municipal Code, and he seems familiar with all
the various phases of the important municipal, provincial and
national problems which are now engaging public attention.

Sir Lomer Gouin was married in May, 1888, to Miss Eliza Mercier,
a daughter of the late Hon. Honore Mercier, prime minister
of Quebec. Lady Gouin passed away in September, 1904, and in
September, 1911, he wedded Alice, daughter of the late Auguste
Amos of Montreal. Sir Lomer Gouin was present by invitation at
the coronation of King George and Queen Mary in Westminster Abbey
in June, 1911. He is well known in club circles as a member of
the Garrison Club of Quebec; the Club St. Denis, the Montreal
Reform Club, and the Mount Royal Club of Montreal. His religious
affiliation is with the Roman Catholic church.


ISAAC GOUVERNEUR OGDEN.

The enterprise which has brought the western world to a par
with the old world in all that touches business activity and
progress finds exemplification in the life record of Isaac
Gouverneur Ogden, now vice president of the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company. It would be a partial view, however, if one
were to consider his life record only from the standpoint of
business advancement, as his labors have been directed with equal
efficiency along lines which touch the general interests of
society or have their root in a broad humanitarian spirit.

Born across the border, Mr. Ogden is a native of New York, the
date of his birth being October 10, 1844. His parents were
Isaac Gouverneur and Elizabeth Katherine (Williamson) Ogden,
representatives of old and distinguished families of the Empire
state. His education was acquired in local public schools, while
his early business training came to him in a mercantile house
in his native state where he secured employment in 1860. He
early recognized the eternal principle that industry wins, and
industry became the beacon light of his life. He turned from
merchandising to banking, entering the house of Fisk & Hatch
with which he remained until March, 1871, when he made his
initial step in railway service as paymaster and accountant for
the Chicago & Pacific Railway Company. The duties of the dual
position were promptly and capably discharged until 1876, when he
was made auditor, serving in that capacity for five years under a
receiver.

In 1881 he became auditor for the western division of the
Canadian Pacific Railway Company, was advanced to the position of
auditor for the Canadian Pacific in 1883 and so remained until
1887. For fourteen years thereafter he was comptroller for the
Canadian Pacific and since December, 1901 has been vice president
of the most important railway that crosses the Dominion. Long
experience has made him familiar with various phases of railway
operation and management, and thus he came well equipped to
his present position, ready for administrative direction and
executive control.

In early manhood Mr. Ogden wedded Miss Julia M. Baker and they
reside at No. 457 Mackay Street. Home and business interests,
however, by no means comprise the extent of his activities which
reach out into the fields of religious and philanthropic work and
also prominently into club life. He is an Anglican, is president
of the Montreal College of Homeopathic Physicians and Surgeons;
and is a life governor of the Montreal Homeopathic Hospital. In
1901 he was elected president of the Association of American
Railway Accounting Officers and in 1905 was a delegate to the
International Railway Congress. He brings to bear upon public
questions the same keen discrimination and sound judgment that
have characterized his activities in railway circles. His social
nature finds expression in his membership in the St. James, Mount
Royal, Forest and Stream, Royal St. Lawrence Yacht and Montreal
Hunt Clubs of Montreal; the Lotus and Transportation Clubs of New
York, and the Manitoba Club of Winnipeg.


CHARLES HAZLITT CAHAN.

It cannot be denied that members of the bar have been more
prominent actors in public affairs than any other class of the
community. This is but the natural result of causes which are
manifest and require no explanation. The ability and training
which qualify one to practice law also qualify him in many
respects for duties which lie outside the strict path of his
profession and which touch the general interests of society.
Holding marked precedence among the members of the bar and
recognized also as an influential factor in political circles,
Charles Hazlitt Cahan is a well known and honored resident of
Montreal. He comes of a family of Irish origin and was born at
Hebron, Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, October 31, 1861, his parents
being the late Charles and Theresa Cahan, of Yarmouth. He
supplemented his early educational training by study at Yarmouth
Seminary and in Dalhousie University, winning his Bachelor of
Arts degree in 1886 and Bachelor of Laws degree in 1890. He began
practice as a barrister of Nova Scotia in 1893 and was created
king’s counsellor there in 1907. In the same year he entered
upon the practice of law in the province of Quebec and was made
king’s counsellor in this province in 1909. While a resident of
Halifax he was a member of the law firm of Harris, Henry & Cahan
but since 1909 has been in practice in Montreal. He has always
specialized in corporation law, in which department he has had
wide and varied experience in North and South America and in
Europe.

There was an interval between the completion of his course and
his active connection with the bar in which he devoted his time
and energies to journalistic interests, being connected with the
Halifax Evening Mail and Herald, resigning, however, to devote
his attention to law and politics in 1894, and he has made for
himself a prominent name and position in the latter as well as
in the former connection. He contested Shelburne, Nova Scotia,
in the conservative interest and following the election sat in
the Nova Scotia legislature from 1890 until 1894, during which
period he was the recognized leader of the opposition. In 1896 he
unsuccessfully contested Shelburne and Queen’s for the house of
commons, and also Cumberland at the general election in 1900. He
declined a nomination for the St. Lawrence division of Montreal
at the general election of 1911, and he also refused political
honors when he decided not to accept the portfolio offered him
in the Dominion cabinet in 1896. Public activity has ever been
with him a matter of public duty, as he has ever placed the
general good before partisanship or self-aggrandizement. He was
for several years honorary secretary of the Halifax branch of
the Imperial Federation League and honorary secretary of the
Liberal-Conservative Association in Nova Scotia. With all the
duties that have been imposed upon him in his political and
professional connections, he has found time and opportunity
to cooperate in the management of various successful business
corporations and interests. He is now the president of the
Western Canada Power Company and of the Corporation Agencies,
Ltd., and a director of several other important financial and
industrial companies. He has closely studied vital public
problems, and he took a decided stand against the Taft-Fielding
reciprocity compact, against which he delivered various addresses
during the political campaign of 1911. He has been termed a
courageous, ready and powerful speaker. He presents his arguments
with clearness and force, and their logic is convincing.

On March 1, 1887, Mr. Cahan was united in marriage to Mrs. Mary
J. Hetherington of Halifax, Nova Scotia, and they now reside at
No. 740 University Street, Montreal, with a summer residence at
“Belmont,” Halifax, Nova Scotia. Mr. Cahan’s club relationship
is with the Mount Royal and Montreal Clubs, Montreal; the
Halifax Club, Halifax; and the Jockey Club of Mexico. He filled
the presidency of the Dalhousie University Alumni Association
in 1893-4. One of the elements of his success is found in his
ability to entirely concentrate his thought and efforts upon the
question or work in hand and then turn with equal enthusiasm and
capability to his next duty or undertaking. The trend of his mind
is analytical, logical and inductive, and as a corporation lawyer
he stands among the foremost representatives of the profession in
Montreal.


LEANDRE BELANGER.

Leandre Bélanger, for forty years or more one of the most
prominent notaries of the province of Quebec, was born March 29,
1848, at St. François de Sales, Laval county. His father, Leandre
Bélanger, was a carriage maker by trade and married Marie Nadon.
His grandfather, François Bélanger, was a farmer of Laval county.

In his native village Leandre Bélanger, Jr., spent his boyhood
and was educated at Terrebonne College. For five years he studied
law in the office of Melasippe Prevost in Terrebonne and on
the 11th of June, 1871, was commissioned a licensed notary in
Quebec. For a year thereafter he engaged in practice at St.
François de Sales, but, seeking a more extensive field, he
located in Montreal on the 1st of May, 1872, and in this city
soon built up a large and lucrative practice. Until 1909 he was
alone in practice, but in that year formed a partnership with his
son Adrien under the name of Bélanger & Bélanger, with offices at
No. 30 St. James Street. For twenty-five years Mr. Bélanger has
been a member of the board of notaries of the province of Quebec
and for three years served as president of that board. For eight
years he was president of the Montreal Association of Notaries
and his contemporaries in the profession accord him a high
position in their ranks. He has been a member of the Antiquarian
and Numismatic Society for many years, and he is also a member of
the Chambre de Commerce.

[Illustration: LEANDRE BELANGER]

Mr. Bélanger is a member of the Catholic church and of L’Union
Catholique and has served as a director and vice president of the
latter. In politics he has ever remained independent. In 1870
he was married at St. François de Sales, to Claire Viger, and
they became parents of two children: Joseph, a resident of St.
Hyacinthe; and Maria, the wife of Dr. Archambault, of Fall River,
Massachusetts. In 1879 Mr. Bélanger was married, in Montreal,
to Miss Laura Viau and they have seven children: Leandre, an
electrician in Montreal; Adrien, who is in partnership with his
father; Armand; Laura; Evelina; Antoinette; and Alice. The family
home is on St. Catherine road in Outremont.


HON. LOUIS ONESIME LORANGER.

Hon. Louis Onesime Loranger, whose name is prominently associated
with the history of Montreal’s judiciary, retired from the bench
in May, 1910, but has never ceased to feel a deep interest in
his profession or in the great and vital problems which are most
closely connected with the welfare and progress of the country.

He was born at Yamachiche in the province of Quebec on the
7th of April, 1837, a son of the late Joseph and Marie Louise
(Dugal) Loranger. In the acquirement of his education he attended
Montreal College and St. Mary’s College, the latter a Jesuit
school of Montreal, and in preparation for the bar, having
determined to make the practice of law his life work, he began
a thorough course of reading and on the 3d of May, 1858, was
admitted to practice at Montreal. He then joined his brothers,
Hon. T. J. I. Loranger, late judge of the superior court and
the late J. M. Loranger, K. C. They acquired an extensive
practice and, in fact, were accorded a large share of the most
important law work in the city during the greater part of the
later half of the nineteenth century. Mr. Louis O. Loranger was
created a king’s counsel by the Marquis of Lorne in 1881 and
the honorary degree of LL. D. was conferred upon him by Laval
University in 1901. He continued in the active profession of law
until appointed judge of the superior court for the district of
Montreal in 1882, and remained upon the bench for twenty-seven
years, or until May, 1910, when he entered into the enjoyment of
a full pension.

Judge Loranger’s public service aside from his connection with
the judiciary has been extensive and of an important character.
He was alderman of Montreal from 1868 until 1879, covering
a period of eleven years, and he sat for Laval in the local
legislature for a period of seven years, or from 1875 until 1882.
He was attorney general in the Chapleau administration from 1879
until 1882. It was upon his retirement from that position that he
was made puisne judge, continuing upon the bench for twenty-seven
years thereafter. His public service also covers incumbency in
the office of president of the St. Jean Baptiste Society in
1895-6. In 1906 he was elected governor of Laval University and
the same year was made president of Notre Dame Hospital.

Judge Loranger was twice married. In 1867 he married Marie Anne
Rosalie Lafranboise, a daughter of the late Hon. Mr. Justice
Lafranboise. To them were born seven children: Louise, the
deceased wife of Henry Masson; Louis J., a prominent advocate of
Montreal, whose sketch appears elsewhere in this volume; Adele,
now Mrs. H. Prefontaine; Caroline, now Mrs. Hubert Desjardins;
Joseph, a well known advocate of Montreal; Maurice, a well known
attorney of this city; and Rosalie, now Mrs. Emile Chaput, of
Montreal. The mother of these children died in May, 1883, and
Judge Loranger was again married in May, 1888, his second wife
being Mrs. Antonette (Valois) Verin, a daughter of the late S.
Valois.

Hon. L. O. Loranger is a communicant of the Roman Catholic
church. He belongs to Club Lafontaine and is an advocate to
conservative principles. He enjoys high reputation as a lawyer
and as a debater and still takes an exceedingly active interest
in political affairs. He has long since passed the Psalmist’s
span of three score years and ten, having now reached the age of
seventy-seven, but in spirit and interest seems yet in his prime.
Old age need not necessarily suggest inactivity; on the contrary,
there is an old age which grows stronger and better mentally and
morally as the years go by and gives out of the rich store of
its experience for the benefit of others. Such is the record of
Hon. Louis Onesime Loranger, whose opinions carry weight in many
councils and are always worthy of an interested hearing.


EDOUARD O. CHAMPAGNE.

Edouard O. Champagne, superintendent of the department of boiler
inspection for the city of Montreal, has been connected with
that department of the city government for thirty-five years,
during which time he has established a reputation for capability
and efficiency in his line that is probably unsurpassed on the
continent. Thoroughly progressive and up-to-date, he has kept
fully abreast of the advancement made in all lines of manufacture
and usage affecting his department.

Mr. Champagne comes from one of the old and prominent families
of the province, a family whose members for nearly two hundred
and fifty years have been identified with provincial history and
have been regarded as of the highest type of French-Canadian
citizenship. Edouard O. Champagne was born at Sorel, Quebec,
in 1848. His education was acquired at the Christian Brothers
College, where he excelled in mechanical drawing and civil
engineering and also at the John Allan Model and Classical school
of Sorel. He served his apprenticeship as a machinist in the St.
Lawrence engine works, after which he was for fourteen years
employed on steamboats on the Ottawa and St. Lawrence rivers and
Lakes Champlain, Erie and Ontario in his professional capacity.

[Illustration: EDOUARD O. CHAMPAGNE]

His splendid record as an engineer of various boats induced the
harbor commissioners of Montreal to engage him to run the St.
Peter, their best boat, which was never outdistanced during
the four years in which he was in charge. In 1872 he obtained
a first class certificate from the federal government as a
mechanical engineer, being the first French-Canadian to whom
was accorded that distinction. In 1879 he was appointed boiler
inspector for the city of Montreal by a council, the majority of
whose members were English-speaking. His experience has enabled
him to solve many of the difficult and intricate problems that
arise in connection with the operation of engines, pumps, steam
plants, elevators and water and gas plants. In a word, he has
expert scientific knowledge and practical mechanical ability and
is splendidly qualified for the onerous and important duties
which devolve upon him in this connection. As an example of his
capability, as well as the value of his services to the city,
mention might be made of the heating apparatus of the public
baths. In July, 1913, when the question of heating water for the
public baths was being considered by the city officials, various
types of expensive and complicated apparatus were shown and
inspected. The expense of installation, as well as that of fuel
and maintenance, represented a large sum if any of those systems
had been adopted. Mr. Champagne had given the matter some thought
and, with a system of entirely his own planning, offered to
install an efficient and economical apparatus for that purpose.
How well he succeeded may be inferred from the fact that at an
expense of ten dollars he secured the same result, in less than
one-half the time, that a system costing ten thousand dollars
would have accomplished. Three such equipments were supplied by
him, representing a first cost saving of thirty thousand dollars
to the city. Being in the city’s employ, he waived all claims
to remuneration as an inventor. The city’s requirements in the
future will call for a number of such installations, each one of
which will mean a saving of an additional ten thousand dollars.

At their annual meeting in 1880 the various members of the
Association of Boiler Inspectors of the United States and Canada
were invited to submit designs from which the organization’s
official seal was to be selected. Mr. Champagne, through illness
in his family, was unable to attend this meeting. However, he
submitted the design he had planned, and it was adopted. This has
ever since been in use as the official seal of the association.
The first impression made from the seal, together with a small
photogravure of the original drawing, were sent to Mr. Champagne
by the officials. The design of the seal is unique and highly
appropriate, containing accurate drawings of sixteen dangerous
types of boilers which form its circular border. Mr. Champagne
has frequently been called upon as an expert in determining
causes of boiler explosions, and in matters generally pertaining
to his line of business there are few, if any, better posted men
in the Dominion.

Mr. Champagne is also a noted marksman and one of the best
snapshots in the Dominion. He came into permanent possession
of several challenge cups as evidence of his skill. Few men
would probably display more modesty over achievements of equal
importance and significance than he has done.

In 1895 he came into public notice through his heroism at the
Longue Pointe Asylum fire, when he and Chief Benoit saved the
lives of over ninety inmates. It is characteristic of him that he
never considers himself in the presence of imminent danger, and
his faithfulness and fidelity in public service have won him the
confidence and high regard of all who know aught of his career.
As a citizen he represents the best of the French-Canadian type,
has reared an excellent family and, with them, is highly esteemed
and respected.


HON. FRANCOIS XAVIER CHOQUET.

Hon. François Xavier Choquet, judge of the juvenile court,
Montreal, since January 2, 1912, is uniformly recognized as an
eminent legist and jurist, as well as an able member of the
judiciary. He occupied for many years a position of distinction
at the Montreal bar, where his name figured in connection with
the court records of some of the most prominent cases heard in
the province.

Judge Choquet was born on the 8th of January, 1851, at Varennes,
in the province of Quebec. His father, Jean Baptiste Choquet, was
a farmer at Varennes and descended from one of the oldest French
families in the province, while the mother of Judge Choquet,
Adeline Provost, a daughter of Amable Provost, also belonged to
an old and honorable family.

The Choquet family has been identified with the history of the
province since 1665, the founders, who originally belonged to
Picardie, France, settling in Canada in that year.

Judge Choquet added to the fundamental principles of education
the knowledge acquired in attendance at L’Assomption College, the
Montreal Seminary and McGill University, being graduated from the
last named in 1874 with the B. C. L. degree, having determined
to make the practice of law his life work. In the meantime he
had studied law under Sir La Jette and Senator Beique, in the
firm of Jette & Beique, and after being called to the bar on the
10th of January, 1875, he began the practice of his profession
in Montreal as a partner of his former law preceptors, being
admitted to the firm of Jette & Beique, where he remained about
four years. Subsequently he practiced alone for six years, during
which time he acquired a clientele that was not surpassed by any
of his contemporaries. He afterwards became partner in the firm
of Mercier, Beausoleil & Choquet, so continuing from 1884 until
1892, when the senior partner, the late Hon. Honore Mercier,
withdrew, and the firm style of Beausoleil & Choquet was adopted.
Judge Choquet was created a king’s counsellor by the Earl of
Aberdeen on March 7, 1893.

Many important duties have devolved upon him, either in the
direct or indirect path of his profession. He was a royal
commissioner to revise the charter of Montreal in September,
1897, and was appointed judge of the session of the peace, police
magistrate, and license commissioner of Montreal on the 27th of
December, 1898. He was also appointed an extradition commissioner
under the extradition act, July 20, 1901. In more strictly
professional lines his service as a member of the council
of the Montreal bar continued from 1894 until 1897, and he was
appointed a delegate to the general council of the bar of the
province of Quebec.

[Illustration: HON. FRANCOIS X. CHOQUET]

He has been a continuous student of his profession, constantly
broadening his knowledge by reading, study, research and
investigation until today his opinions are largely accepted as
authority concerning any vital legal problems.

In the course of his professional career, Judge Choquet
successfully handled many important railway and municipal cases.
He made a special study of the law relating to transportation
matters and also the laws governing municipal affairs, while on
the law of elections, the Montreal Herald has referred to him as
“the highest authority of the province.”

In June, 1884, Judge Choquet was married to Miss Marie
Caroline Barry, a daughter of John E. Barry, of Saguenay and
Trois Pistoles. Both Judge and Mrs. Choquet are prominently
connected with the Montreal Children’s Aid Society, of which
he was president for some time, while Mrs. Choquet has been
vice president. He is also president of the Cooperative Funeral
Expense Society. Their religious faith is that of the Roman
Catholic church, and Mrs. Choquet was granted an audience by the
pope in 1906. Judge Choquet is vice president of the Shawinigan
Fishing Club, holds membership also with the Engineers and
Winchester Clubs, and has been president of the latter for ten
years. He resides at No. 814 Dorchester Street, West, Montreal,
through the winter seasons and has a summer home at Rigaud, P. Q.


HON. LOUIS TELLIER.

On the list of representatives of the judiciary of Montreal
appears the name of Hon. Louis Tellier, puisne judge of the
superior court of the province of Quebec. A native of Berthier,
Quebec, he was born on the 25th of December, 1844, a son of
Zephirin Tellier of Ste. Melanie d’Aillebout and Luce Ferland,
the latter a daughter of V. Prisque Ferland. After attending
Joliette College Louis Tellier was called to the bar in 1866,
and thus for almost half a century he has been a representative
of the legal profession in the province. For a number of years
he held the office of deputy prothonotary of the superior court,
also deputy clerk of the circuit court and deputy clerk of the
peace and of the crown for the district of St. Hyacinthe. He had
studied law under the late Mr. Baby, who became a justice of the
court of queen’s bench in the province of Quebec, and afterward
under Mr. Chagnon, who became a judge of the superior court for
the province of Quebec in the district of Iberville, and had come
to the bar well equipped for the honors and responsible duties
of the profession. His ability was early manifest in the manner
in which he prepared and conducted his cases, and in 1873 he was
appointed crown prosecutor for the district of St. Hyacinthe. He
also became a recognized leader in political as well as in legal
circles, and in 1878 he was elected to the house of commons for
the St. Hyacinthe riding at the general election and sat for
that district until 1882. He was appointed queen’s counsel in
1882 by the Marquis of Lorne. He resumed the practice of law and
was raised to the bench as puisne judge of the superior court
of the province of Quebec by the Marquis of Lansdowne on the
12th of November, 1887. He was appointed for the district of
St. Hyacinthe, succeeding Justice Sicotte, but in 1903 he was
removed to the district of Montreal, where he now presides. His
decisions on the bench are models of judicial soundness, showing
a comprehensive grasp of the law with ability to accurately apply
its principles.

On the 26th of May, 1868, Judge Tellier married Hermine, daughter
of the late Dr. A. Malhiot. She died in 1878, and on the 18th
of July, 1882, Judge Tellier married Elzire Hamel, daughter of
Joseph A. Hamel, collector of customs in St. Hyacinthe division.
Her death occurred October 6, 1906. On the 26th of January,
1914, the Judge married Mrs. Jules Richard whose maiden name was
Regina Royer and who was the widow of Jules Richard, advocate,
practicing his profession at Sherbrooke in the district of St.
Francis. Judge Tellier has three sons and five daughters.

He is an administrator of Laval University and is a member of the
Catholic church. His mind is naturally analytical, logical and
inductive, and his clear reasoning finds expression in judicial
opinions from which colleagues and contemporaries seldom take
exception.


HENRY JOHNSTONE ELLIOTT.

Henry Johnstone Elliott, senior member of the law firm of Elliott
& David, has been a lifelong resident of Montreal, and is a son
of the late Hugh Elliott. He received his early education in
the schools of his native city and pursued his preparation for
the bar at McGill University, from which he was graduated B.
C. L. in 1898. The same year he began practice as an advocate,
and ten years’ successful work as a representative of the legal
profession won him position among the king’s counselors, being
created such in 1908. He understands thoroughly the necessity for
careful preparation before presenting his cause in the courts,
and in the trial of cases it is seen that his knowledge of the
law is exact and comprehensive, while in the application of legal
principles he is seldom if ever at fault.

Mr. Elliott finds enjoyment in golf, and interest and recreation
in various outdoor sports, exercises and athletics. He belongs
to the Beaconsfield Golf Club, Outremont Golf Club, Montreal
Athletic Association, the Engineers Club and the Temple Club, all
of Montreal. His religious belief is that of the Anglican church
and he has been a delegate to the synod.


REV. MALCOLM A. CAMPBELL.

Rev. Malcolm A. Campbell, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church of Montreal and known in that city as a man of superior
attainments and of active religious zeal, was born in Bruce
county, Ontario, October 10, 1875. He acquired his education in
high school at Port Elain, in his native province, and later
attended the Collegiate Institute at Owen Sound. He supplemented
this by a course in McGill University and in the Presbyterian
College at Montreal, from which he was graduated in April,
1909. He was ordained in the following October and in January,
1910, became minister of the First Presbyterian church of this
city, a position which he still retains. This is one of the
most important parishes in Montreal, being a combination of
St. Gabriel’s and Chalmers Presbyterian churches, the former
the first Protestant church in Canada. Rev. Campbell brings to
the duties of his responsible position well directed energy,
unflagging zeal and a firm belief in the importance of the work
in which he is engaged, and the results of his labors are seen in
the excellent condition of the parish and its constant growth.

On the 26th of October, 1910, Rev. Campbell was united in
marriage to Miss Louise Crippen, of Trout River, New York. He is
a member of the Masonic order, being grand chaplain of the Grand
Lodge of Quebec province, and he is widely and favorably known in
Montreal, where he is recognized as a man sincere in his aims and
purposes and one whose honorable and upright life is always in
strict conformity with the doctrines which he professes.


ARTHUR JOSEPH RICHER, M. D.

In preparation for the onerous and difficult duties and
responsibilities of the profession Dr. Arthur Joseph Richer has
studied under eminent physicians and surgeons of the old world
and the new, and his labors have manifestly been of marked value
to his fellowmen, especially in the conduct of the Brehmer Rest,
a sanitarium promoting a preventive treatment for tuberculosis.

He was born at Upton, P. Q., November 16, 1868, and is a son
of Damase and Celina (Larvie) Richer, of Antonvale, P. Q. His
education was acquired at Sabrevois Mission College and in
Bishop’s College at Lennoxville, P. Q., where he was accorded
the degrees of M. D. and C. M. in 1892. Since that time he has
taken post-graduate work in New York and for a year and a half he
was connected with the Pasteur Institute of Paris. He was also
assistant under Dr. Roux in his private laboratory, and under his
guidance and that of Pasteur, Metchkinoff and others, Dr. Richer
performed many successful experiments. Later he was assistant at
L’Ecole de Pharmacie Superieure at Paris for a short time and
was appointed house surgeon at the faculty surgical clinic at
Krakow, Austria, in 1895. He next went to Breslau for a winter’s
study before returning to Canada. At different times he was a
student at Dresden, Leipzig, Halle, Berlin and Hamburg and was
an assistant in the laboratory of physiology of the faculty of
medicine of Paris.

Dr. Richer returned to Canada in 1897 and located for practice
in Montreal. He has since carried on an active crusade against
tuberculosis in this country. The scheme of a recuperative home
such as Brehmer Rest at Ste. Agathe des Monts was suggested by
Dr. Richer. He has been a lifelong worker in fighting the dread
disease and in the early spring of 1905 Brehmer Rest was opened
as the result of his untiring efforts. In his first annual report
concerning the institution he said: “When we select for treatment
convalescents from pneumonia, pleurisy, and typhoid fever, as
well as those affected with anaemia, chlorosis and debility,
we do so with a definite object in view. Nine-tenths of those
affected as above will inevitably become victims of tuberculosis.

“If they can be treated and trained before they become a
prey to the dread scourge, the saving is evident from every
viewpoint. In the pre-tuberculosis stage a patient can be
restored to health in eight or ten weeks; when tuberculosis has
developed it becomes a matter of as many months. At the last
International Congress, held in Paris, October, 1905, one of the
delegates present expressed his opinion in very strong terms
regarding the treatment of the conditions of disease known as
‘pre-tuberculosis;’ they comprise the group above mentioned. In
this respect Brehmer Rest stands out as supplying an actual need,
and enjoys the unique distinction of being the first institution
in the world devoted to that special class of work. Brehmer
Rest has undoubtedly anticipated the movement of the future,
particularly when considered in the light of the statements
recently made by Von Behring in connection with his method of
vaccination against tuberculosis. The new product (Tulase), which
this distinguished scientist offers to the world, is a substance
extracted from the cultivated germ of the disease (tuberculosis),
so modified as to impart resisting power to the human organism
without impairing health. It is markedly curative in the first
stage of the disease, thus its action is twofold, protective and
curative.”

Dr. Richer’s efforts along this line have gained him not only
national but international fame and distinction. His name is
known on the other side of the Atlantic as well as on this, and
he has joined hands with the men of earnest purpose who are using
the highest scientific skill and knowledge to blot out the dread
disease. His labors have been effective in hundreds of cases and
thus his life work has been a valuable contribution to mankind,
placing him with the benefactors of the race.


JOSEPH TREMBLAY.

Joseph Tremblay, chief of the Montreal fire brigade, was born at
St. Isidore, a little village a few miles from Montreal, where
his parents were the proverbially poor but honest French-Canadian
small farmers. His education was the usual course of reading,
writing and arithmetic gleaned from the village priest. At the
age of twelve years he left school and the farm, thinking to
find more congenial and profitable occupation in the city. He
made his way to Montreal with all his earthly possessions tied
in a bundle, after the manner of Dick Whittington of old. At
that period he knew no English, but he had little difficulty in
finding a position as errand boy with one Beauvais, a merchant
tailor of Chaboillez Square. Being an errand boy had small
attractions in those days and it did not suit Joe Tremblay to
remain one for long. He, therefore, gathered up his bundle, put
his money in his sock and departed for the United States. For a
while he lingered on that side the border, learning many lessons
in the school of experience which have since been of much use
to him. Following his return to Montreal he sought to establish
himself in the tailoring business, which he had followed during
his sojourn in the United States. He located at Ste. Cunegonde,
then a separate municipality south of Westmount and north of
Point St. Charles. There he hung out two neat brass signs, one
of which read Joseph Tremblay, Tailleur, and the other Joseph
Tremblay, Tailor, thus soliciting business from both the English
and French population. While he was then ready for business, it
appeared that business was not ready for him. F. Beecher Edwards,
in an article in a Montreal paper, said:

[Illustration: JOSEPH TREMBLAY]

“Fate, wishing to do some good to poor old Montreal for a change,
glimpsed one Joseph Tremblay working busily in his little
tailoring and men’s furnishing shop on the southwestern borders
of the city. Whereupon, things went very badly for the said
Joseph Tremblay in his little tailoring and men’s furnishing
business. People to whom he owed money camped on his doorstep
and people who owed him money left for parts unknown in the dead
of night, so Joseph Tremblay put up the shutters on his little
tailoring and men’s furnishing shop on the southwestern borders
of the city and went into the Ste. Cunegone fire department.
Consequently the Montreal fire department is today a thing to be
proud of in a city which has little enough reason to be proud of
the vast majority of its civic enterprises.

“Fate, it will be observed, may be a trifle circumlocutious in
her methods, but she gets there in the end. So we may thank fate
that made Joseph Tremblay an unsuccessful tailor and haberdasher,
for the fact that during the tragic Christmas week--1913--when
through somebody’s outrageous blundering the greater portion
of this great Canadian metropolis went inadvertently dry; when
the fire menace, ever present, hovered more threateningly
over thousands of human lives and millions of dollars worth
of property, because of the fact that our strongest barrier
of defense was broken down with the collapse of a few feet of
unstable concrete somewhere out beyond Point St. Charles, we
may thank fate for the fact that we had at the head of the
Montreal fire department, deprived from no fault of its own of
its heaviest ammunition, a man of the quality, the resource and
the ability of Joseph Tremblay, the bad tailor who became one of
the greatest, if not the greatest of fire chiefs on the North
American continent.

“At the time that Joseph Tremblay became a member of the fire
department he was much as he is now, with the exception of recent
inclination to embonpoint, a well set up, good looking man of
above the average build and as strong as two ordinary men. He had
a brain, too, but they did not find that out until he had been
in the Ste. Cunegonde force at least a week, when it began to be
hinted that there was more to this young man than to the average.
Six months after Joe Tremblay joined the Ste. Cunegonde fire
brigade the chief of the brigade retired from office; whereupon,
to the amazement of one and all, the Ste. Cunegonde council made
the new recruit, the man who had been an unsuccessful tailor,
chief. This may safely be put forward as the world’s record for
rapid promotion.

“In the course of time Ste. Cunegonde was annexed to Montreal
and Chief Tremblay became Sub-Chief Tremblay, in charge of the
western division. This was in 1906. In 1907 he was made a deputy
chief to Chief Benoit and when one year later the veteran retired
in his turn Deputy Chief Tremblay became head of the Montreal
fire brigade.

“Chief Tremblay is an omnivorous reader of all literature
appertaining to fires and fire fighting and he is not above
learning from other cities and makes at his own expense at least
one trip a year to the principal cities in the States to see what
helpful piece of information he can pick up.

“One of his first official acts was to institute an inspection
system which was largely instrumental in reducing the rates
of fire insurance here. In 1905, 1906 and 1907 the fire loss
was around nine dollars per annum per capita. In 1913 it was
something like two dollars and thirty-four cents per capita. He
was responsible for the introduction of automobile fire apparatus
here; he started the firemen’s drill school at Chaboillez Square,
and he had the fire headquarters transferred from the City Hall
to its present location on Craig Street. The chief is well known
by sight to Montrealers. His inspiring figure has bulked large
on the horizon of many a panic stricken householder at hundreds
of fires during the last few years. He is a big, handsome man,
and his very size begets confidence. He works his men hard and
he works himself just as hard, for he believes that the citizens
should get full value for their money. He has one or two hobbies,
all of them connected with fire fighting, a high pressure system
for the down town district, a fire tug for the harbor and the
placing of the firemen’s benevolent fund on a sound footing.
Chief Joseph Tremblay is a man’s size man and if there was any
doubt on the subject lingering in anyone’s mind it was banished
by the splendidly efficient manner in which he handled the
appalling situation during the water famine of December, 1913.”


PAUL E. MERCIER.

Paul E. Mercier, one of the best known civil engineers in
Montreal and a member of the firm of Baulne & Mercier, has won
a position of high standing in his profession. He was born at
St. Hyacinthe, Quebec, March 15, 1877. His father was the late
Hon. Honore Mercier, premier of Quebec, of whom a more extended
mention appears elsewhere in this work, while his mother previous
to her marriage was Virginie St. Denis.

When four years of age Mr. Mercier was brought to Montreal and in
the schools of the city pursued his early education. He afterward
attended St. Mary’s College and was graduated with honor from
Ecole Polytechnique with the Bachelor of Science degree in 1899.
During his holiday periods he was employed by the Canadian
Pacific Railway Company and following the completion of his
college course he went to the Yukon, where he spent a year as
assistant engineer of the Dominion public works and two years as
district engineer in the Yukon.

Following his return Mr. Mercier was for two years district
engineer of Dominion public works for the district of Quebec
and from 1904 until 1907 was engineer in charge of work of the
National Transcontinental Railway. In the latter year he returned
to Montreal and opened an office as consulting engineer, while in
1910 he formed a partnership with S. A. Baulne, with offices in
the Shaughnessy Building. Reading between the lines one may see
that his progress has been continuous and that he has advanced
step by step until he now occupies a commanding position in
engineering circles. His ability has increased through experience
and continuous study and investigation. He keeps abreast with
the leaders of the profession in all that pertains to his
chosen life work and his ability has won him wide recognition
and well earned reputation. In 1911 he was appointed professor
of railway engineering at Ecole Polytechnique and in 1913 was
appointed on the board of examiners for the Canadian Society of
Civil Engineers. On May 16, 1914, he was appointed deputy chief
engineer of public works of Montreal. He has important membership
relations along professional lines. He has been secretary of the
Association des Anciens Elèves de L’Ecole Polytechnique since
its organization and he has been professor of transportation
and communication at l’Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales de
Montreal. He is a member of the American Railway Engineering
Association, the Quebec Land Surveyors’ Corporation, the Society
of Civil Engineers of France and the Association International
Congress of Navigation. Mr. Mercier is also well known in
military connections. He is captain of the Corps of Guides of the
Canadian Volunteer Militia and organized and commands as major
the Canadian Officers Training Corps of Laval University.

On the 29th of June, 1901, Mr. Mercier was married, at
Whitehorse, Yukon, to Miss Marie Louise Tache, of Ottawa,
Ontario, and their children are Simone, Jeanne, Yvonne and Heva.


JAMES MORGAN.

James Morgan, an influential citizen of Montreal, is perhaps
best known as president of Henry Morgan & Company, Limited.
His activities, however, have extended to other lines, all of
which have proved beneficial to Montreal in its material, civic
or moral upbuilding. In the utilization of opportunities that
others have passed heedlessly by, he has achieved distinction
and honorable success, and yet the acquirement of wealth has
been but one phase of his existence, never excluding his active
participation in and support of other vital interests which go
to make up community and national life. He was born in Glasgow,
Scotland, a son of the late James Morgan, a native of Saline,
Fifeshire, who was associated with his brother, Henry Morgan,
in the conduct of the business now carried on by Henry Morgan &
Company, Limited.

In early life James Morgan became a resident of Montreal and
attended the Montreal high school. He then became connected with
the business founded by his uncle and father, and gradually
worked his way upward in that connection. Mr. Morgan, moreover,
is president of the Colonial Real Estate Company and has been
prominently connected with various other business enterprises
of far-reaching importance. He aided in promoting the British
Columbia Bank Note Company in 1904 and in organizing and
developing the Montreal Cement Company in 1905. He was likewise
vice president of the Accident & Guarantee Company of Canada,
and in all these associations his judgment is sound, while his
ability to coordinate and unify seemingly diverse elements has
been one of the strong features in his growing success. While he
has reached the millionaire class, his business methods have ever
been such as will bear the closest investigation and scrutiny, in
that there is no esoteric phase in his entire career and what he
has accomplished, both for himself and the community at large,
represents the fit utilization of the innate powers and talents
which are his.

Mr. Morgan was united in marriage to Miss Anna Lyman, a daughter
of Frederick Lyman, of Connecticut. They are influential members
of the Church of the Messiah (Unitarian) of Montreal, in which
Mr. Morgan is serving as trustee. His interests and activities
extend to many beneficent projects and to those which spread
culture and stimulate intellectual activities. He is a director
of the Montreal Horticultural and Fruit Growing Association
and one of the principal promoters of the Montreal Citizens
Association, of which he is now a director and treasurer. He was
likewise one of the promoters of the Montreal Board of Control,
but declined election thereto. He is one of the governors of the
Montreal General Hospital and is interested in various projects
seeking to meet public needs along broad humanitarian lines. He
is a councillor of the National Historical Society, belongs to
the St. Andrews Society, to the Montreal Art Association and to
the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society. He is also a member of
the Canada and the Reform Clubs. His life has been one of intense
and well directed activity, fruitful of good results for the
general public as well as for himself.


ANSELME SERAPHIN DEGUIRE.

Anselme Séraphin Deguire enjoys high distinction as a lawyer and
has also given much evidence of his public spirit in his position
as alderman of the city of Montreal. He comes of an old Canadian
French family, the earliest ancestor recorded in Abbé Tanguay’s
Dictionnaire being François De Guire, who was born in 1641 and
who died at Montreal. In 1669 he married Mlle. Rose Colin, born
in 1641, and they became the parents of nine children.

Anselme S. Deguire was born at Côte des Neiges on the 25th of
November, 1874, a son of Séraphin Deguire and Alphonsine Pilon of
Ste. Anne de Bellevue. The father was a gardener by profession.
Mr. Deguire of this review studied at Montreal College, from
which he was graduated in 1895 with the degree of B. A., and
afterwards took a law course at Laval University. He was admitted
to practice in 1901. Immediately afterwards he interested himself
in municipal affairs and his aptitude along financial lines made
him valuable in a number of important positions which he held in
the administration of the village of Côte des Neiges. Under his
leadership the proceedings to erect the village into a town were
successfully completed.

As a lawyer Mr. Deguire soon secured a select clientele, no long
novitiate awaiting him in his practice. He is one of a coterie
of lawyers, or more correctly, he continues the traditions of
a coterie of lawyers who had their origin in Côte des Neiges
and several of whom were well known and very prominent. Such
were the late Judge Madore and Judges Charbonneau and Demers.
Mr. Deguire is universally esteemed by his fellow citizens and
since the annexation of Côte des Neiges to the city of Montreal,
of which annexation he was an ardent advocate, he has been its
representative in the Montreal city hall. He was elected first
for the Côte des Neiges ward in 1910 and reelected by acclamation
in 1912.

[Illustration: ANSELME S. DEGUIRE]

At the Church of St. Louis de France, on the 18th of November,
1902, Mr. Deguire married Mlle. Aloysia Chopin, a daughter of
the late Dr. J. Nestor Chopin of Sault au Récollet. Mr. and Mrs.
Deguire have one son, René, born January 1, 1904. Mr. Deguire
is not only a successful advocate and lawyer, but a patriotic
citizen and a splendid example of a loyal French-Canadian.
Fraternally he is affiliated with the Royal Arcanum.


JOHN J. ARNTON.

When death claimed John J. Arnton on the 13th of November,
1894, he was the oldest real-estate man in Montreal in years of
continuous connection with the business in this city. Montreal
numbers him among her native sons, his birth having occurred in
1832. He began his business career with the firm of John Leeming
& Company and later practically succeeded to the business and
good will of the firm. He watched the notable development in real
estate methods and, keeping abreast of the progress of the times,
met substantial success. He was in business at the time of the
real-estate boom of the ‘70s and he gained a patronage as large
as he could handle. Realizing fair profit from his real estate
negotiations, he was at length able to retire with a comfortable
competence. The integrity of his business methods was one of the
features of his growing success, and his progressiveness was also
an element in his advancement.

Mr. Arnton entered the city council but retired before completing
his term. For some years he was a director of the Canadian Bank
of Commerce and his name was an honorable one on commercial
papers. He was at one time president of the Irish Protestant
Benevolent Society and was a man of generous spirit, giving
freely of his means to the poor and needy and extending a helping
hand to the unfortunate. He was survived by six children, when
on the 13th of November, 1894, he passed away at the age of
sixty-two years, leaving behind the memory of a well spent life,
fraught with many good deeds.


HOWARD WINTHROP PILLOW.

Howard Winthrop Pillow is the Montreal manager for the British
American Bank Note Company and is vice president and one of
the directors of that corporation. His position as one of the
younger business men of the city is enviable. He was born in
Montreal, May 9, 1883, and is a son of John Alexander and
Annie Elizabeth (Hillyer) Pillow. He attended Bishop’s College
School at Lennoxville and for two years was a student in McGill
University. With liberal education to serve as the foundation,
he has gradually worked his way upward, the exercise of effort
developing his latent powers and talents. He is now bending his
efforts to administrative direction and executive control as the
manager at Montreal for the British American Bank Note Company,
a position to which he has attained by individual merit. He is
the vice president and one of the directors of the company and
as such occupies a prominent and enviable position in business
circles.

On the 1st of October, 1906, in Boston, Massachusetts, Mr.
Pillow was married to Miss Lucile E. Fairbank, a daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. L. G. Fairbank, and they now have one child, Lucile
Marguerite.

Mr. Pillow is a well known club man and much of the nature of
his interests and recreation, aside from business, is indicated
in the fact that he belongs to the St. James, Montreal and
Beaconsfield Golf Clubs, the Automobile Club of Canada, the
Montreal Amateur Athletic Association, the Montreal Jockey Club,
the Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club and the Heather Curling Club.


XAVIER ARTHUR ROBICHON, M. D.

High on the list of Montreal’s best known surgeons appears the
name of Dr. Xavier Arthur Robichon, who is a descendant of
one of the old French families of the province of Quebec. His
great-grandfather, the first of the family to come to Canada, was
in early life a captain of French vessels. After arriving in this
country he established an iron foundry near Three Rivers, in the
province of Quebec. The Doctor’s grandfather also followed the
business of an iron founder at that place and Nicolas Treffle
Robichon, the father, was a successful merchant at Three Rivers.
He married Trenche Montague, who since his death has resided in
Montreal. Their children are: Nicolas Raoul, a civil engineer
of Montreal; Xavier Arthur; George Henri, an advocate of Three
Rivers; and Mastai, who died at the age of seven years.

Dr. X. A. Robichon was educated in a preparatory school in Three
Rivers, and at the Christian Brothers Ste. Ursule school at the
same place, followed by a five-years’ classical course at St.
Joseph College at Three Rivers, his classical studies being
completed in St. Mary’s College in Montreal, where he spent
four years and where he was graduated with the Bachelor of Arts
degree, receiving the medal of the governor general and the prize
of excellency.

Upon the broad foundation of literary learning Dr. Robichon
erected the superstructure of professional knowledge. Immediately
after the completion of his course at St. Mary’s he began the
study of medicine at Laval University, graduating summa cum
laude in 1906, with the degree of M. D. The following year he
spent as interne in Notre Dame Hospital of Montreal, gaining
the broad practical experience which only hospital practice can
bring. During the succeeding two years he specialized in the
study of surgery in Paris, France, and in the summer of 1909 he
entered upon active practice in Montreal as a general surgeon,
since which time he has devoted his attention exclusively to
professional duties of growing volume and importance. Throughout
this entire period he has also been assistant demonstrator
of anatomy at Laval University. He is a member of La Société
Médicale de Montreal, and he has his office at No. 335 St. Denis
Street.

On the 18th of September, 1907, Dr. Robichon was married by
the archbishop of Montreal, Monseigneur Paul Bruchesi, to Miss
Flora Salvail, daughter of Dr. Salvail, of Helena, Montana, and
they are parents of five daughters, Claire, Jeanne, Alice,
Lucienne and Estelle. Family and professional interests divide
Dr. Robichon’s time. Upon his home and his practice his interest
centers, and laudable ambition in the latter connection has
brought him to a high position, experience, wide reading and
research constantly developing his skill until he is now one of
the foremost surgeons of the city.

[Illustration: X. ARTHUR ROBICHON]


DUNCAN MCDONALD.

The name of Duncan McDonald has long figured prominently in
connection with transportation interests. He has displayed
a spirit of enterprise and initiative in all that he has
undertaken, has operated along broad lines and has carefully
planned and executed important projects. He is now devoting his
attention to the supervision of various interests with which he
is identified following his retirement from the management of the
Montreal Street Railway Company. His investments largely have to
do with transportation interests. He is president of the Montreal
Tunnel Company, which has reached a very active stage in its
development, and it is Mr. McDonald’s purpose to give special
attention to the rapid inauguration and execution of the work.
He is also largely concerned in several real-estate companies
that are dealing with central Montreal property, as well as large
subdivisions in outlying municipalities. He is the president of
the Pre-payment Car Sales Company with offices in the Hudson
Terminal building at No. 50 Church Street, New York, this being
the operating company for all the various “Pay-as-you-enter,”
“Pay-within” and other styles of pre-payment cars that are
being so rapidly adopted by the cities on this continent. He is
also connected with the International F-A-Y-E Tramcar Company,
Limited, Broad Street Place, London, E. C.

Mr. McDonald’s operations in real estate have been of a mammoth
character. He was the original promoter of Dominion Park, which
in its development and sale has netted a splendid income for
the investors, and he is at present vice president of that
enterprise. He is also a director of several industrial and
transportation companies. He belongs to the Institute of Civil
Engineers of France and to the Institute of Electrical Engineers
of Great Britain, connections which indicate the recognition of
his high standing and notable ability in the fields into which he
has directed his efforts.


JOSEPH PHILIPPE LAMARCHE.

Joseph Philippe Lamarche, a well known notary of Montreal, was
born in St. Henri de Mascouche, L’Assomption county, Quebec,
January 29, 1866. His grandfather, Louis Lamarche, was a farmer
of L’Assomption county. His father, Joseph Olivier Lamarche, now
eighty-one years of age, was for many years a notary at St. Henri
de Mascouche, where he yet resides. He married Helene Mount,
a sister of Dr. Mount, of Montreal, and her death occurred in
April, 1874. To them were born three children: Joseph Philippe;
George, a resident farmer of St. Henri de Mascouche; and
Joseph S., a notary of Montreal. The father has been a lifelong
conservative in politics and for many years was secretary and
treasurer of the municipality of St. Henri de Mascouche. In
fact, he has been a prominent figure in political, official
and business circles there and is today one of the honored and
venerable citizens.

Joseph Philippe Lamarche was educated in the parochial schools of
his native town and in L’Assomption College, which he attended
for six years, his course there being supplemented by two years’
study in the Ottawa University. During the succeeding three years
he was a student in the office of Coultee & Lamarche, notaries of
Montreal. In 1890 he won the degree of Baccalaureatus in Legibus.
In 1890 he began the practice of his profession in St. Henri
de Mascouche, where he continued until 1903, when he removed
to Montreal, where he has since successfully practiced. He is
thoroughly versed in the principles of the profession and his
ability is attested by his liberal clientage.

Mr. Lamarche was married in St. Henri de Mascouche to Marie Rose
Lambert, and to them have come four children, Helene, Lambert,
Philippe and Rita. In politics Mr. Lamarche is a conservative and
at the present writing he is filling the office of commissioner
to the superior court for the district of Montreal, his
creditable record commending him to the further support and
confidence of the public.


SIR JOSEPH HICKSON.

Sir Joseph Hickson, who in 1890 received the honor of knighthood
at the hand of Her Majesty in recognition of ability displayed
in the management of important and extensive railway interests,
is classed with those to whom Canada owes much of her greatness
and her prosperity. He was born at Otterburn, Northumberland,
England, in 1830, and acquired his education there. Throughout
his entire business career he was connected with railway
interests, first entering the service of the North Eastern
Railway of England and thus gaining his elementary knowledge
of railway management and operation. He left that corporation
to accept a position with the Maryport & Carlisle Railway, in
which capacity he served with credit until 1851, when he went to
Manchester and entered the service of the Manchester, Sheffield &
Lincolnshire Railway. Promotion rapidly followed in recognition
of his capability, indefatigable energy and perseverance, so that
after ten years he became assistant to the general manager, in
which position his labors engaged the attention of Sir Edward
Watkin, chairman of the Grand Trunk Railway in Canada, who
proffered him the position of chief accountant of the Grand Trunk
in December, 1861.

He left England for the new world in the following January and
made his way to Montreal, where he continued to reside until
called to his final rest. Here his ability and power soon gained
further recognition and he was made secretary and treasurer of
the company, in which capacity he continued until the resignation
of C. J. Brydges, managing director of the Grand Trunk, in 1874,
when Sir Joseph Hickson succeeded as general manager of the road
and system. The policy which he inaugurated was soon felt as a
dominant power in active management and cooperation. One of
his first acts was to sell to the federal government the line
between Point Levis and Riviere du Loup and with the proceeds
of this transaction he changed the old gauge of the road to the
standard gauge of American lines and thus effected connection
with Sarnia and Chicago. The wisdom of this move was soon
manifest as it opened up a new field of enterprise to the company
and marked the beginning of that policy of affiliation and
connection which resulted to the benefit of both countries before
Sir Joseph Hickson ceased to be an active factor in the control
of an immense system embracing five thousand miles of track
in the United States and Canada. Sir Joseph served as general
manager until 1890, when he retired from his arduous position
after receiving, early in that year, knighthood from Her Majesty,
the late Queen Victoria, in recognition of the ability which
he had displayed in the management of the Grand Trunk Railway
System and of the valuable service he had rendered in developing
Canada and her resources. Under his management the road had been
rapidly and substantially improved and extended, connections with
other lines being formed which have proven of great value in
later years. Perhaps the most valuable work which he undertook
and accomplished was the establishment of the direct line to
Chicago wholly under control of the Grand Trunk system. By this
master stroke was secured the best paying portion for carrying
freight and at the same time gave to Canadian steamship companies
a large amount of the freight which they carried across the
Atlantic. It was while Sir Joseph Hickson occupied the position
of general manager that the length of the road in its main and
collateral lines was extended from one thousand three hundred
and eighty-three to three thousand four hundred and eighty-seven
miles. In railway management he studied each vital question from
every possible standpoint and with almost judicial accuracy
passed judgment upon the important matters at issue. He was
largely instrumental in carrying forward the great engineering
undertaking known as the St. Clair tunnel, which was completed
in 1890 at a cost of three million dollars. His work elicited
attention from one end of the country to the other, and he became
one of the foremost representatives of railway interests on the
American continent.

[Illustration: SIR JOSEPH HICKSON]

On the 17th of June, 1869, Sir Joseph Hickson wedded Catherine,
the eldest daughter of the late Andrew Dow of Montreal. Mrs.
Hickson is a native of this city and was educated here. She
has been prominently identified with the Montreal League for
the Prevention of Tuberculosis and was one of the promoters of
the Royal Edward Institute in 1909 and an active supporter of
various other similar bodies. She is also the vice president
of the Montreal branch of the Needlework Guild of Canada and
has been termed by one of the city papers “a queenly hostess.”
Sir Joseph and Lady Hickson had two sons and a daughter. The
eldest, Joseph William Andrew Hickson, was educated at McGill
University, winning the B. A. degree on completing the course
in mental and moral philosophy in 1893, while in 1896 his alma
mater conferred upon him the Master of Arts degree. He won the
Ph. D. degree in 1900 at the universities of Berlin, Freiburg and
Halle. He was lecturer and tutor in the philosophical department
of McGill University from 1900 until 1905, assistant professor of
psychology and lecturer on philosophy at McGill from 1905 until
1909 and has since been assistant professor of metaphysics and
logic. He is a contributor to the University and other magazines
and reviews, is a councillor to the Economic and Statistical
Society, is a member of the University Club and a member of the
board of management of the House of Industry and Refuge. He
is an enthusiastic mountain climber and a well known clubman,
belonging to the Mount Royal, University and Political Economy
Clubs of Montreal and the Alpine Club of Banff. The second son,
James Claud Hickson, graduated B. A. from McGill in 1895 and,
receiving the B. C. L. degree in 1898, is now engaged in active
practice as a member of the law firm of Hickson & Campbell. He
was created K. C. in 1909 and is a life governor of the Montreal
General Hospital. He is well known as a clubman, his membership
being in Mount Royal Club, Canada Club, Montreal Hunt Club, Royal
Montreal Golf Club, Montreal Curling Club, Lafontaine Club,
Montreal Jockey Club, Montreal Racquet Club, Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht Club, University Club, and Constitutional Club of London,
England. The daughter, Miss Mary Elizabeth Hickson, is well known
as an author, having early contributed tales and sketches to the
magazines. She is also the author of two charming stories of
French-Canadian life, “Madame Janvier’s Church” and “The Call of
God.”

Sir Joseph Hickson served as justice of the peace for Montreal
and was interested in several banking, commercial and industrial
enterprises which he represented on the directorate. He was
appointed by the Dominion government as president of the royal
commission on the prohibition of the liquor traffic. He stood for
all those interests which are effective forces in the progress
and upbuilding of city, province and country, and the position
which he filled was one of influence and honor.


HERBERT BROWN AMES.

Herbert Brown Ames, a deep student of the science of government
and avowed in his opposition to misrule in public affairs, has,
through his practical efforts, the result of keen insight into
situations, been instrumental in bringing about various needed
reforms and improvements. His public addresses, too, have aided
largely in shaping public opinion on the side of right and order,
and thus his value as a citizen can hardly be overestimated.

He was born in Montreal, June 27, 1863, his parents being the
late Evan Fisher and Caroline Matilda (Brown) Ames, both of whom
were born in the United States. After mastering the elementary
branches of learning Herbert B. Ames became a student in Amherst
College, of Massachusetts, from which he was graduated in 1885
with the Bachelor of Arts degree. He afterward studied the French
language and literature in France, and made his initial step
in business circles as a representative of the wholesale firm
of Ames-Holden, Ltd., of Montreal, with which he was actively
connected until December, 1893. He is still a representative
of that corporation and one of its directors and is likewise a
director of the Dominion Guarantee Company, the Great West Life
Insurance Company, the Royal Victoria Life Insurance Company,
and a number of other prominent business concerns. As a merchant
he has established a reputation that places him in a prominent
position among the leading and representative business men of
the city. His efforts in that direction would alone entitle
him to distinctive mention in the history of Montreal, and yet
this is but one phase of his activity. He is perhaps even more
widely known because of his connection with efforts put forth in
opposition to misrule in municipal affairs. He was particularly
active in that direction during his service as alderman from 1898
until 1906, during which time he promoted and advocated many
reform measures and projects, always working along conservative
lines. He was chairman of the municipal board of health from 1900
until 1904, and again his service was of notable value to the
city. He had previously filled the position of secretary of the
Good Government Association and was president of the Volunteer
Election League, which bodies effected many reforms in civic
administration. His name is widely known, and in fact he has been
heard in many centers as a lecturer on Canadian political history
and on problems of municipal government. He has been a frequent
contributor to the press, and among his notable articles are: The
Machine in Honest Hands, published in 1894; The City Below the
Hill, A Sociological Study, published in 1897; The City Problem;
What is it?, in 1901; and The Housing of the Working Classes, in
1907. These show wide research and deep insight into existing
conditions and point out various practical methods of improvement.

Mr. Ames was appointed a member and protestant secretary of
the council of public instruction for the province of Quebec
in 1895. The following year he was elected to the presidency
of the Young Men’s Christian Association of Montreal, and the
extent and importance of his work is further indicated in the
fact that he is a governor of the Montreal Dispensary and of the
Society for the Protection of Women and Children. He delivered
an address in London, England, before the chamber of commerce on
trade interchange in 1904, and was presented with a silver bowl
by the same body in acknowledgment of his personal services in
connection with the visit of that organization to Canada in 1904.
In 1909 he went as a delegate to the Imperial Commercial Congress
at Sidney, New South Wales, and as a member of that body moved
for the appointment of an advisory imperial council to consider
questions of imperial interest, especially those tending to
promote trade between the various parts of the empire.

Since the general election of 1904 he has sat for the St.
Antoine division of Montreal in the house of commons in the
conservative interests, and in March, 1909, succeeded in securing
the appointment of a committee for the revision of the assets
of the Dominion. He is a very active worker in support of
conservative measures and movements, and his life work indicates
his recognition of the fact that education along broad lines and
political activity are the sources of a country’s power and the
foundation upon which is builded its business. He was appointed
one of the representatives of the house of commons at the
coronation of King George in London in 1911.

In May, 1900, Mr. Ames was united in marriage to Miss Louise
Marion Kennedy, a daughter of John Kennedy, C. E. They occupy
an attractive home at No. 26 Ontario Avenue, Montreal. Their
religious faith is that of the Presbyterian church, and Mr. Ames
holds membership in a number of the leading clubs of the city,
including Lafontaine, University, Montreal, Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht and St. James Clubs. He is a man of indefatigable energy
and unquestionably a force to be reckoned with in the public life
of Canada. Even those opposed to him politically recognize that
he is a man to be trusted, that what he promises he will do. His
position is never an equivocal one and in his entire career there
is no esoteric phase.


ERNEST NICHOLSON BROWN.

Ernest Nicholson Brown was born in Lower Newcastle, New
Brunswick, on the 12th of July, 1867. His father, Robert Brown,
went from Dumfries, Scotland, to Pictou, Nova Scotia, in 1823,
and settled as a young man in Miramichi, New Brunswick, in 1835.
He married Ann Noble, of United Empire Loyalist descent. Her
grandfather fought on the British side at the battle of Bunker
Hill. James Nicholson, an uncle of Robert Brown fought at the
battle of Trafalgar and the medal awarded him for his services on
that occasion is now in possession of Mr. Brown.

After attending the high school at Chatham, New Brunswick, Ernest
N. Brown entered Dalhousie University at Halifax, from which he
was graduated in 1889 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He
followed that course with post-graduate study at Clark University
in Worcester, Massachusetts, after which he was engaged for some
years in teaching. In 1902 he won the degree of Bachelor of Civil
Law upon the completion of the regular course in law in McGill
University. He was admitted to the bar in the province of Quebec
in 1902 and for two years was in practice in the office of Duncan
McCormick, K. C., while subsequently he became a member of the
firm of Patterson & Brown, and in 1908 he became a member of the
firm of Brown & Staveley.

Mr. Brown is a liberal in politics, and his religious faith is
that of the Presbyterian church. In 1904, Mr. Brown married Miss
Elizabeth Malcolm Fraser, a daughter of the late John Fraser
of Lachine Rapids, author of “Canadian Pen and Ink Sketches”,
“Historic Canadian Ground” and various articles dealing with
points of interest in Canadian history, especially those
connected with the scenes of his boyhood in and about Lachine.


CHARLES BERNIER.

The name of Charles Bernier is a synonym for efficiency in
architecture in Montreal. A native of the province of Quebec, he
was born at St. Jean Port Joli, on the 17th of December, 1866.
His father, Francis Bernier, was a contractor and builder at St.
Jean Port Joli and there died. The mother bore the maiden name of
Virginie Deschene.

Charles Bernier was educated in the schools of his native town
and in the Christian Brothers school at L’Islet. When fifteen
years of age he went to Quebec, where he entered the office of
David Ouellet, a well known architect, with whom he remained
as a student for three and a half years. Through the ensuing
year and a half he was in the office of Ferdinand Peachy, a
noted architect of Quebec, and then, splendidly qualified for
the profession, he entered upon active practice, which he
successfully followed alone in Quebec until June 24, 1903, when
he came to Montreal. Here in connection with Charles Brodeur he
formed the partnership of Bernier & Brodeur, which connection
was maintained for seven years, and during that period their
offices were removed to 70 St. James Street. Through the three
succeeding years Albert Menard was associated with Mr. Bernier in
the firm of Bernier & Menard, and since Mr. Menard’s death Mr.
Bernier has continued alone. He is accorded a large clientage,
for his ability places him among those foremost in the ranks of
the profession. On all sides may be seen splendid evidences of
his handiwork as exemplified in some of the most beautiful and
substantial structures of Montreal.

[Illustration: CHARLES BERNIER]

Mr. Bernier was married in this city to Alma Dionne, daughter
of Octave Dionne, of Quebec, and they are parents of three
daughters, Adrienne, Alice and Anna. The religious belief of
the family is that of the Roman Catholic church. Mr. Bernier
belongs to Lafontaine Club and to the Royal Arcanum. He is a man
of refined, cultured tastes, quiet in manner and a deep student
of subjects relating to the profession, in which his standing is
among the highest.


HON. AMEDEE GEOFFRION.

Hon. Amedee Geoffrion, one of the recorders of Montreal, was born
at Varennes, in the province of Quebec, February 6, 1867, and was
educated at L’Assomption and Laval University. Liberal training
qualified him for the profession which he determined to make his
life work and in 1889 he was called to the bar. He began the
practice of law at the age of twenty-one and from the beginning
made continuous progress. He was made King’s Counsel in 1905.

His activity, too, has been largely manifested along other
lines. Not a little of the progress made on the south side of
the river in recent years is due to his efforts and public
spirit. A consistent supporter of the progressive policy of the
government of Sir Lomer Gouin he has, since elected for Vercheres
in 1908, been identified with many noteworthy public projects
that have assisted materially in the development and improvement
of the rural districts. The movement for the improvement of
existing highways in the county of Vercheres has found in him
a warm supporter. He has served the municipality of Longueuil
with efficiency and manifest approbation, first in the capacity
of recorder and afterward in that of mayor, holding the latter
position since 1908. He stands for all that works for civic
betterment and improvement and is a close student of the vital
problems affecting the welfare of city, province and nation.
During the years of his mayoralty he has been the head of a
highly progressive administration. It has been during this period
that the electric railway has been brought to the town and that
electricity has been installed for lighting purposes, while
cement sidewalks have been laid and the work of improvement has
been otherwise carried on along most progressive and beneficial
lines.

In September, 1912, Mr. Geoffrion was appointed by Quebec to the
position of recorder of the city of Montreal and is now filling
that office with the same capability and fidelity that he has
displayed in other positions. None question his public spirit
nor his knowledge of the law, and he stands today with those
whose success has been builded upon the foundation of ability and
laudable ambition.


LYON COHEN.

Lyon Cohen, merchant and contractor, of Montreal, Quebec, is a
member of L. Cohen & Son, coal merchants, and of W. R. Cuthbert
& Company, brass founders, and is proprietor of the Freedman
Company, wholesale clothiers, the Hibbard Company, Ltd., railway
contractors, and General Improvement & Contracting Company, Ltd.,
dredging contractors.

This has been termed the age of commercialism and it is the
old world’s belief that new world residents are engrossed in
money-making to the exclusion of almost everything else. There
are many examples, however, to the contrary, and the life record
of Lyon Cohen is one which proves that while successfully
conducting business affairs, time may also be found for active
cooperation in movements that tend to promote intellectual and
moral progress, or which relieve distress among the unfortunate
ones of the world, for he has done much philanthropic and
charitable work, while at the same time he has wisely and capably
managed important mercantile interests. He was born in Poland,
Russia, May 11, 1868, a son of Lazarus Cohen. In early childhood
he was brought to Canada and attended the McGill Model School and
also the Catholic Commercial Academy of Montreal. He became a
member of the firm of L. Cohen & Son in 1891, and from the time
when he put aside his text-books and entered business circles his
progress has been continuous.

Mr. Cohen has attained a prominence in Montreal social and
business circles that necessitates a mention of him in any
publication undertaking to represent the leading citizens of
the city. He has been prominently identified with almost every
movement looking to the betterment of Jewish conditions in this
country, and his labors have been effective forces in promoting
the welfare of those of his faith. He was one of the founders
of The Jewish Times of Montreal, and he was president for three
years, 1904-5-6, of Shaar Hashomayim congregation, the largest
and most prominent Jewish congregation in Canada. Interested
in the welfare of his people wherever they are found, he is
treasurer of the Canadian committee of The Jewish Colonization
Association of Paris, and was secretary of the Jewish rights
committee. He is a life governor of The Montreal General
Hospital and of The Western Hospital, and was elected president
of The Baron de Hirsch Institute of Montreal in 1908. He did
such splendid work in that connection, that he was four times
reelected, serving until the end of 1912. Upon his voluntary
retirement he was presented with an illuminated address and
handsome silver service. He is prominently identified with a
number of movements; is member of juvenile court committee;
member of executive of Child’s Welfare Association, and was
chairman of publicity of Child’s Welfare Exhibition, 1912;
member of executive of Montreal improvement committee; honorary
chairman of North End Synagogue; honorary president of Young
Men’s Hebrew Association; and chairman of Committee to Federate
Jewish Charities.

Mr. Cohen is a member of The Montefiore Club, of which he is a
past president; he is also an ex-president of The Montreal Reform
Club, being a liberal in politics. A love of progress actuates
him in all he does. He could not be content to move forward at
the pace which many men assume. He must all the time be up and
doing, for he is a man of action rather than theory, and at all
times the end accomplished indicates the wisdom of the methods he
has followed.

Mr. Cohen was married in February, 1891, to Miss Rachel Friedman,
a daughter of the late Noah Friedman. They have four children,
Nathan Bernard, Horace Rives, Lawrence Z. and Sylvia L. Mrs.
Cohen is also interested in charitable work and is the founder
and president of The Jewish Endeavor Sewing Society. The family
residence is at 25 Rosemount Avenue, Westmount, Quebec.


ZIGMOND FINEBERG.

Under the name of Zigmond Fineberg & Sons is conducted a growing
real-estate and brokerage business. Mr. Fineberg was born in
March, 1863, in Poland, Russia, his parents being Moses Nathan
and Agnes Fineberg, the former a merchant. Among his ancestors
were rabbis, physicians and lawyers and capable business men. He
pursued his education in Suvalk, Russia, and became a government
roads contractor of that country.

Attracted by the opportunities of the new world, and prompted
by laudable ambition to try his fortune on this side of the
Atlantic, Mr. Fineberg came to Canada, settling in Montreal,
where he embarked in business as a clothing merchant in 1887.
About seventeen years were devoted to that undertaking, years
which brought him a substantial measure of success and led to
his activities along still broader lines. It was in 1904 that
he turned his attention to real estate, becoming a real-estate
broker and finance agent, business being now conducted under the
firm style of Z. Fineberg & Sons at No. 62 St. James Street. He
is thoroughly informed concerning property values, knows the
real estate that is upon the market and has himself been a large
investor, not only in real estate, but in railway shares, so that
his stocks and property holdings make him one of the prosperous
citizens of Montreal. Moreover, in 1910, he founded the Montreal
Free Loan Association, of which he is the president. He belongs
to the Montreal Board of Trade and is connected with many
institutions of a public nature, being formerly a director of the
Baron de Hirsch Institute, a life governor of the Baron de Hirsch
Institute, a life governor of the Montreal General Hospital, of
the Hertzl Dispensary and of Mount Sinai Sanitarium. He likewise
belongs to the Montreal Citizens’ Association. He is an ex-member
and vice president of the Spanish and Portuguese synagogue, and
he now holds membership in the McGill College Avenue Synagogue.

In his native city of Prenn in 1885, Mr. Fineberg was married
to Miss Jennie Kirschberg, a daughter of the late Abraham
Kirschberg. The children of this marriage are: Joseph, Nathan
Samuel, Aaron Harry, Moe Newton, Agnes and Max. The second son
has won the degrees of Master of Arts and Bachelor of Common Laws
and is now engaged in the practice of the legal profession.

Mr. Fineberg has held the offices of justice of the peace and
commissioner of the superior courts since 1903. He belongs
to the Masonic fraternity, the Odd Fellows society and the
Canadian Order of Foresters, and exemplifies in his life the
beneficent spirit underlying those organizations, recognizing the
brotherhood of mankind and the obligations of mutual helpfulness
and kindliness.


MATTHEW A. SAMMETT.

Matthew A. Sammett, one of the most competent electrical
engineers in Canada, was born at Baku, Russia, on the 2d of
November, 1872. He was educated in a technical school in his
native land and in 1893, when a young man of twenty-one years,
came to the new world. He continued his education by attendance
at night schools for a time and afterward entered the University
of California, where he pursued a four years’ course, which he
completed by graduation with the Bachelor of Science degree in
1899. He immediately put his theoretical training to practical
test and joined the staff of the General Electrical Company of
Schenectady, New York, in which connection he obtained thorough
familiarity with modern electrical machinery and general
engineering practice. The ability which he displayed in that
connection won him promotion to the engineering department and
in that position he made a close study of the design of some of
the alternating current machinery now in universal use. Each step
in his career has been a forward one, and each change in his
business connections has marked an advance. In 1902 he joined the
engineering staff of the Lachine Rapids Hydraulic & Land Company
and after its amalgamation with the Montreal Light, Heat & Power
Company was given charge of the testing department of the new
organization, his work embracing the testing of the various kinds
of electrical apparatus used in the transformation, control and
measurement of electrical energy. He also designed a complete
line of highly efficient transformers for lighting and power
service.

During 1905 and 1906 Mr. Sammett conducted a popular course
in applied electricity at the Montreal Young Men’s Christian
Association.

In 1908 Mr. Sammett opened an office as consulting engineer
in Montreal and in this connection has gained a large and
distinctively representative clientage, including the Amalgamated
Asbestos Corporation, Ltd.; The Asbestos & Asbestic Company,
Ltd.; The St. Francis Hydraulic Company, Ltd.; The Brompton Pulp
& Paper Company; The Maritime Coal, Railway & Power Company,
Ltd.; The Dominion Marble Company, Ltd.; The Smart-Woods Company,
Ltd. He has also been retained in connection with municipal
electrical undertakings. The practice of his profession now makes
heavy demands upon his time and energies, and in addition
he is well known as a contributor to the technical press of
the United States and Canada. He has also prepared and read
many scientific papers before engineering bodies and is known
personally or by reputation to the entire electrical profession
on the American continent. He has formed many warm friendships
by keeping in close touch with the progress of his profession as
a member of the Canadian Electrical Association, the Canadian
Society of Civil Engineers and the American Institute of
Electrical Engineers.

[Illustration: MATTHEW A. SAMMETT]

Mr. Sammett married Miss Eleanor Horwitz, and their children
are four in number, Frank Edward, Hazel, Helene and Pearl. Mr.
Sammett is a member of the Canadian Club and possesses a genial
cordial nature that has made him popular, but he prefers to
concentrate his energies upon his business affairs, in which he
has attained notable success. He is a self-made man. Commendable
ambition pointed out to him the way to success. He followed the
path indicated and is today occupying an advanced position as an
electrical engineer.


HENRY MORGAN & COMPANY, LIMITED.

For nearly three-quarters of a century the name of Henry Morgan
has been inseparably interwoven with the mercantile progress
and advancement of Montreal and in more recent years, with the
branching out of the house he founded, it has taken a foremost
position, in its various lines, among the big mercantile and
industrial institutions of the Dominion.

The Henry Morgan & Company, Limited, of today, is the outgrowth
of a business established early in the year 1843, on Notre Dame
Street, a few doors east of McGill Street, by Henry Morgan and
David Smith, under the firm name of Smith & Morgan. From a small
dry-goods house carrying only a limited number of lines it has
developed into a great and powerful departmental store and
what might be justly termed one of the mercantile successes of
Montreal, whose capabilities are almost as varied as the city’s
needs.

Henry Morgan, the founder of this house, was born in Fifeshire,
Scotland, in 1819, and when a young man in his early twenties,
came to Montreal, where he entered into the dry-goods business,
as previously stated.

The original location of Smith & Morgan’s store was soon found
inadequate, and in 1854 the business was removed to McGill
Street, just south of St. Joseph, now Notre Dame, in a building
occupied by Latineer. In 1860 an addition was made extending to
Notre Dame Street and when the old American Presbyterian church,
corner of Victoria Square and St. James Street, was removed, the
business was transferred to that location in more commodious
quarters.

In 1852, Mr. Smith retired from the business, and that same year
the firm of Henry Morgan & Company was established, Mr. James
Morgan of Glasgow, Scotland, a brother, becoming a member at that
time. The latter, a native of Saline, Fifeshire, Scotland, had
entered the dry-goods business early in life and for a number of
years was a member of the firm of Muirhead & Morgan, of Glasgow.
The personnel of the firm practically remained unchanged until
1876, when James and Colin D. Morgan, nephews of Henry Morgan and
the former a son of James Morgan, became members, and upon whom
most of the burden of the business has fallen.

In 1891, this firm completed on St. Catherine Street, opposite
Phillips Square, one of the finest business blocks in America, to
which its mercantile business was transferred. This move became
necessary in order to meet the requirements of a constantly
growing business, and a shift in the retail section to that part
of the city.

Mr. Henry Morgan, the founder of the business, died December
12, 1893, at which time the Gazette said in part: “No Montreal
merchant and not many Canadian merchants could claim to be
better known than Mr. Henry Morgan, who passed to his rest
yesterday, after a busy, successful and well spent life of almost
seventy-five years. His character was marked by many of those
traits which have made men of Scottish birth so prominent a
factor in the upbuilding of Montreal’s commercial prosperity. Mr.
Morgan was of a somewhat retiring disposition. His store and his
farm home at Maisonneuve divided his time, and though he enjoyed
a very large share of public respect, he never sought to enter
public life. He was unmarried. His death was due to influenza,
the cause of so many deaths of prominent men lately, acting on a
constitution weakened somewhat by previous illness. The funeral
takes place today from St. Andrew’s church, of which he was an
esteemed elder.”

The death of Mr. James Morgan had preceded that of his brother
but a few months, and occurred on March 28, 1893, at which time
the Gazette said in part: “By the death of Mr. James Morgan,
Sr., Montreal has lost one of its oldest citizens and one who
for well nigh half a century was an intelligent sharer in its
commercial and industrial progress. The deceased gentleman was
in his eighty-sixth year. Mr. James Morgan was a man of strong
intellect, diligently cultivated, an assiduous but judicious
reader until his eyesight became impaired, and his opinion on
questions to which he had given thought was ever listened to with
attention. With few persons was it more profitable to converse,
especially on the higher themes of religion, philosophy and
science. His views were broad and so was his charity. Although
as a business man he had little spare time for writing, Mr.
Morgan could wield an able pen and has written not only prose
but poetry. He was long an esteemed member of the Church of the
Messiah. But though a man of strong convictions, as he was a
thorough Scotchman, neither in creed nor in nationality was he of
the narrow type.”

The business of Henry Morgan & Company from its very inception,
has never been at a standstill, success following the firm’s
every move. In 1906 it was incorporated as a limited liability
company under the present title of Henry Morgan & Company,
Limited, with Mr. James Morgan, as president. The development and
expansion of this firm’s interests have come to include several
large factories which it owns and operates, among these being
the foremost high class wood-working plant in the Dominion,
which places the company in a position to build homes as well
as to decorate and furnish them even to the smallest detail. In
this respect the firm has become widely known throughout Canada,
and its successful undertakings include decorative schemes and
interior furnishings of some of the finest homes in practically
every province in the Dominion.

Its business policy has always been one of absolute integrity and
business honesty, and this has exerted a strong influence upon
the life of a great city. The public who come in daily contact
with the various branches of this great organization readily feel
that spirit of industry and enterprise that has made possible
the accomplishing of great things and the building of a great
business dedicated to the best interests of the public whom it
serves.


HON. JAMES MCSHANE.

In the political history of Montreal during the past half
century no name has been more familiar to the people than that
of the Hon. James McShane, who in all of his public connections
displayed a masterful grasp of every problem presented for
solution combined with thorough understanding of human nature and
the springs of human conduct. A firm belief in the principles
which he advocated combined with the qualities of leadership
enabled him to become a directing force in public affairs.

Mr. McShane was born in Montreal, November 7, 1833, a son of
James and Ellen (Quinn) McShane, who came from county Armagh,
Ireland, and settled in Montreal in the summer of 1833. The
mother died during the cholera epidemic of 1834.

After pursuing his early education under Daniel Mahoney, a well
known Irish schoolmaster of that period, and spending some years
as a student in the Sulpician College, James McShane, at the age
of eighteen years, joined his father who had become an extensive
cattle exporter. The son eventually succeeded to the business and
it is a matter of history that he was the first to export cattle
to Europe, his first shipment of three hundred head being made
October 5, 1874, on the steamship George, to Liverpool. For four
years he also had the contract to supply the British troops when
they were stationed here.

While engaged in this business Mr. McShane, with the natural
love of the Celt for such matters, found time to devote to
political problems and activities, both municipal and federal.
In 1863 he was a justice of the peace and for twenty-one years
he represented St. Ann’s ward as an alderman. During those years
he became known as “the people’s Jimmie,” for he knew every man,
woman and child in the ward, calling them by their Christian
names and ever manifesting deep and sincere solicitude for their
welfare. He possessed a wonderful gift of memory enabling him to
readily recall names and faces and incidents connected with the
individual to whom he was speaking. All this made him personally
popular and was an effective element in his leadership.

At various periods Mr. McShane represented Montreal West and
Center in the legislature, continuing to sit from 1878 until
1892. In the formation of the Mercier cabinet he accepted the
important portfolio of minister of public works in which he
continued in 1887-8. When the late Mr. Justice Curran was raised
to the bench in 1875 Mr. McShane contested St. Ann’s division
in the liberal interests against Sir William Hingston whom he
defeated. In 1891 and 1892 Mr. McShane was mayor of Montreal,
and his administration of municipal affairs was characterized by
many needed reforms and improvements. In 1887 he was a member
of the Quebec Interprovincial Conference, and he was at one time
president of St. Patrick’s Society. He served as an officer in
the volunteer militia in the first administrative battalion in
the Fenian raids of 1866 and was granted a medal for his service.
He is now eighty years of age, but is splendidly preserved
physically and mentally, in both regards being the superior
of many men of sixty years. He possesses all the virtues and
specific activities of the sons of Erin. In 1910 when he was far
past the span of life allotted by the psalmist, he fell victim
to an acute attack of pneumonia, but by sheer force of will
passed through a crisis after he was given up by his old family
physician and friend, Mr. McShane remarking that “he felt quite
fit and that this business of making him stay in bed was only a
joke.”

Mr. McShane has been married twice. In 1863 he wedded Elizabeth
Jane Darrah, who died June 25, 1867. In 1870 he married Miss
Josephine Kathleen Meron of Plattsburg, New York, who died
January 1, 1910. Unto them were born six children, three of whom
survive the mother: Mrs. Richard Barry of Montreal; Mrs. Henry M.
Tracy of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who has two children; and
Mrs. Kathleen H. Buckley of New York city, who has five children.


HON. JEAN BAPTISTE ARCHAMBAULT.

Hon. Jean Baptiste Archambault, judge of the circuit court of
Montreal, took to his judicial duties an excellent record as a
lawyer whose ability and success had won for him a foremost place
among the strong and forceful representatives of the Montreal
bar. A deep thinker, logical reasoner and well versed in the
science of his profession, he was eminently well fitted for the
judgeship to which he was appointed November 29, 1913.

He was born at St. Antoine, Vercheres county, P. Q., on the 21st
of March, 1871, and comes from one of the old and prominent
families of the province, one that has given to the legal
profession more members than any other one family.

In the attainment of his education, Judge Archambault attended
St. Hyacinthe Seminary and Laval University, winning the degrees
of B. L. and B. C. L. in 1895. From the outset the science of
his profession, as well as its practical phases, proved a strong
attraction for him. He entered upon active practice in 1895 and
soon demonstrated his ability to successfully cope with intricate
and involved legal problems.

His preparation of cases was always thorough and his presentation
of a cause marked by perspicuity. His standing among his
professional brethren is indicated by the fact that in 1905 he
was chosen by the council of the bar of the province of Quebec to
assist in editing the judicial reports of the superior court and
the court of king’s bench.

Vital political problems have always greatly interested him, and
he has been active and zealous in support of principles in which
he believes. He was a recognized leader of the conservative party
in his native county and was a candidate for the legislature
in 1904. He has ever been a close student of the signs of
the times and the questions of the day, and although still a
conservative in principle he holds to more independent views
than formerly, his comprehensive study leading him to see many
questions in a different light. He has been spoken of as “a man
who has thought out problems for himself and is an authority on
economics, political and social.” He was one of the first to
advocate proportional representation in Canada, has delivered
many lectures upon the subject and has written many articles
which have done much to foster and promote the idea.

[Illustration: HON. JEAN B. ARCHAMBAULT]

His wide general information is one of the strong elements of his
power and ability as a lawyer and jurist. His broad knowledge,
which enables him to understand life in its various phases, and
his masterful grasp of every problem presented for solution, are
qualities which, combined with a familiarity of the law and with
precedent, equip him for his work on the bench.

Judge Archambault withal is possessed of a genial nature, is
kindly in spirit and unfailingly courteous. He belongs to a
number of the leading social clubs and in their membership is
most popular.


SIR HUGH ALLAN.

Sir Hugh Allan, one of the foremost men in the early development
of Canada’s foreign commerce and the practical founder of the
Allan line of steamships, was a man whose initiative spirit
enabled him to recognize, appreciate and understand situations
incomprehensible to men of less sagacity and insight. The success
of his undertakings made him one of the foremost figures in the
history of Canada’s commercial greatness. He stood as a leading
representative of navigation interests and was almost equally
well known in banking and industrial circles. Indeed many
business interests profited by his cooperation and ability and
his memory is still honored by those who cherish the history of
their country and recognize its real upbuilders.

The identification of the Allan family with the shipping
interests of the St. Lawrence dated back to about 1825, when
Captain Alexander Allan sailed up the river in the brig Favorite
from Glasgow. There were no wharves then. The vessel was assisted
up the St. Mary’s current by oxen. The cargo was discharged on
the beach, over long planks.

Sir Hugh Allan was the second son of Captain Alexander, and was
born September 29, 1810, in Saltcoats, County Ayr, Scotland. Sir
Hugh Allan was in his sixteenth year, when on the 12th of April,
1826, he sailed from Greenock for Montreal on the brig Favorite,
commanded by his father, and on which his eldest brother was
second officer. They arrived in Montreal on the 21st of May.
Hugh Allan entered the employ of William Kerr & Company, and
afterward travelled for some time in the United States. He then
visited Scotland and a year later returned to Montreal, where he
secured a position with J. Millar & Company, shipbuilders and
shippers. So excellent was his service in that connection that
after four years he was admitted to partnership and following the
death of Mr. Millar in 1838 the business was conducted by the
firm of Edmonstone & Allan, ship agents, shipbuilders, importers
and general merchants. In 1846, Andrew Allan, a younger brother
of Hugh’s, was taken into the firm. It owned a fleet of fast
sailing vessels of about 350 tons register, full-rigged ships
which, with ice-blocks round their bows, pushed their way through
the ice, so that sometimes they would arrive in port on the 15th
of April. In 1853 Hugh Allan, who was a man of great tenacity
of purpose, and at the same time of remarkable foresight, saw
that the time had come for the building of iron ships for the
St. Lawrence trade. Besides, there was the consideration that
they would run to Portland in the winter time, and connect with
Montreal by rail. He enlisted the support of several wealthy
men, including William Dow and Robert Anderson, of Montreal, and
formed the Montreal Ocean Steamship Company. The Canadian and
Indian were the first two boats built by the company. The boats
cost about two hundred and fifty thousand dollars each and had a
speed of eleven knots. They were wonders at the time and made a
great impression, as the people had not been accustomed to see
iron ships.

It happened that about this time the Crimean war broke out, and
the government was at its wits’ end to provide transports. The
Allans went into the business and while the war lasted made large
profits.

The first ocean steamship, the Genova, reached Quebec in 1853
and proceeded to Montreal, where there was great rejoicing. She
was an iron boat of eight hundred tons and was succeeded by the
Cleopatra and the Sarah Sands. Newer and larger vessels were
built in the succeeding year and what was deemed experimental
at the start became fixed features of the new navigation, which
was dangerous, owing to so many sunken reefs in the St. Lawrence
and the poor lighting of the river. The Canadian government
made a contract with Hugh Allan for carrying the mails, paying
an annual subsidy of one hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
The Anglo-Saxon, a new boat, ran from Quebec to Liverpool in
nine days on one occasion. This was thought to be wonderful, as
the people had been accustomed to a voyage of forty days on the
old sailing vessels. At that time the grain carrying charge was
thirty cents per bushel.

The requirements of the service in 1858 demanded more
accommodation, and the Allan brothers determined on a weekly
service. Larger and faster boats were introduced. The government
paid subsidies to the new service totaling four hundred and
sixteen thousand dollars per annum. Year by year the Allans
launched new boats, always bigger and faster, though speed was
never the chief consideration with the company. In 1861 they had
a fleet of over twenty vessels, but a sinister fortune befell
the company in the first ten years of its existence. Eight ships
were lost in as many years. The Indian, the Hungarian, a second
Canadian, the North Briton, the Anglo-Saxon, the Norwegian, the
Bohemian, all became total wrecks. The river was badly lighted,
the tides did not run true, the pilots were incompetent and the
compass deviated owing to some strange local attraction due,
it was said, to mineral deposits in the gulf. Anyway, disaster
followed disaster, and, as was said at the time, any other
man than Mr. Allan would have given up in despair. But that
gentleman had something of the firmness of his native granite in
his composition and he never wavered. Difficulties in time were
overcome, the Allans began to prosper and from this on their
boats were singularly free from accidents.

To show, however, how little even the most perspicacious can see
in advance of their time, it may be stated that at the banquet
which the citizens tendered Hugh Allan in 1850, he said that
ships of one thousand seven hundred tons were the most suitable
for the Montreal trade. He lived to see his boats grow to five
thousand five hundred tons. The line prospered; the number of
boats was constantly increased to meet the need; the Northwest
was opened up; and the Allan boats brought in many thousands of
immigrants. The building of the Parisian in 1881 was supposed to
be about the last word in shipbuilding. She was far in advance
of anything to be seen on the route. Today she is, by comparison
with the leviathans of the route, almost as antique as the old
Favorite was when steamships came in.

As prosperity came to him in one direction, Sir Hugh Allan
extended his efforts into other fields. He not only kept abreast
with the times but was ever in the vanguard of progress. He
became president of the Montreal Telegraph Company, of the
Canadian Navigation Company, the Merchants Bank of Canada, and
the Lake Memphremagog Navigation Company. He was also interested
in mining as president of the Mulgrave Gold Mining Company
and his activities extended to the presidency of the Montreal
Warehousing Company, the Vermont & Canada Marble Company, and
many other business enterprises of importance. Indeed, no citizen
of Canada has deserved popular recognition in larger measure
than Sir Hugh, and Queen Victoria acknowledged the value of his
service to his country by knighting him with her own hand in 1871.

In 1877 he decided to associate his name with the Canadian
Pacific Railway enterprise. He, in fact, formed the first
syndicate to build it. The fall of the Macdonald government
defeated his plan.

On the 13th of September, 1844, Sir Hugh was married to Miss
Matilda Smith, the second daughter of John Smith, one of the
leading merchants of Montreal. They became parents of nine
daughters and four sons. Sir Hugh died in Edinburgh while on a
visit to Scotland on the 9th of December, 1882, having passed
the seventy-second milestone on life’s journey. His remains were
brought to Montreal in one of his own vessels, and laid to rest
in Mount Royal cemetery. Well merited encomiums were passed upon
him and high honors awaited him during his active life. He was
one who pushed forward the wheels of progress. Looking into the
future he saw something of the greatness in store for Canada
and became a factor in the fulfillment of the progress which he
believed possible for a country having the natural advantages
here offered. He builded perhaps even better than he knew, for
his work continues today, remaining an important element in
Canada’s enterprise, activity and greatness.


FREDERICK CLEVELAND MORGAN.

Frederick Cleveland Morgan, merchant, is one of Montreal’s
native sons, his father being James Morgan. Liberal educational
opportunitiess were afforded him and after pursuing his education
at Cambridge, where he won the Bachelor of Arts degree, he
continued his studies in McGill University, which conferred
upon him the degree of Master of Arts. Throughout his business
career he has been identified with commercial interests and is
now a member of the firm of Henry Morgan & Company, Limited,
proprietors of the Colonial House Department Store, which is one
of the largest and best establishments of its character in the
city.

In March, 1906, Mr. Morgan was married to Miss Elizabeth Marcia
Shaw, the eldest daughter of C. Thaxter Shaw, of Montreal. They
occupy an attractive home at No. 308 Peel Street. Mr. Morgan is a
member of the University Club, Racquet Club, Forest and Stream,
the Mount Royal Lawn Tennis, Arts Club, Art Association and
Antiquarian and Numismatic Society. Mr. Morgan’s interest lies
more in art and literature than in business affairs. He was the
first secretary of the Arts Club, Limited, formed in 1913 for the
purpose of encouraging art and literature.


HON. SIMEON BEAUDIN, K. C.

Hon. Simeon Beaudin, puisne judge of the superior court of the
province of Quebec, took to his judicial duties an excellent
record as a lawyer whose ability had won for him a foremost
position among the strong and forceful members of the Montreal
bar, where he had been a successful practitioner for more than
one-third of a century.

He was born at St. Isidore, P. Q., September 12, 1855, and comes
from one of the oldest families in the province.

He supplemented his early educational privileges by a course
of study in Montreal College and in 1878 was called to the
bar. He immediately entered upon active practice, forming a
partnership with Messrs. Loranger & Loranger, in whose office he
had previously studied. One of the partners was raised to the
bench and on the death of the other Mr. Beaudin succeeded to the
business of the firm. His partnership relations extended until he
became the senior member of the well known law firm of Beaudin,
Loranger, St. Germain & Guerin. His practice was of an extensive
and important character. He argued the St. Blase parish and other
cases before the judicial committee of the privy council of
England, and was acknowledged as a leader of the French-Canadian
bar. For many years he was a member of the bar council. In 1889
he was created Q. C. by the Earl of Derby. He was batonnier
of the Montreal bar in 1902 and later batonnier-general. His
close conformity to the highest standards of his profession and
his devotion to his clients’ interests gave to him a standing
that was an honor to his profession. He was elected an honorary
member of La Chambre de Commerce of Montreal in 1902 and in 1904
he became one of the incorporators of the La Presse Publishing
Company. He was also one of the promoters of Lafontaine Club and
he likewise belongs to Club Canadien and Pointe Claire Golf Club.

Judge Beaudin has always given his political allegiance
to the conservative party. He unsuccessfully contested
Laprairie-Napierville for the house of commons at the general
election in 1908.

For some years previous to his assuming judicial duties in 1912,
he had been frequently referred to by the press and profession
as a most competent man for the bench, and of him the Montreal
Witness said: “He ranks high in his profession, his thorough
legal sense, knowledge of the law and extensive experience
qualifying him for early judicial preferment.”

[Illustration: HON. SIMEON BEAUDIN]

In 1883 Mr. Beaudin was united in marriage to Miss Mary Norris,
a daughter of John Norris, of Montreal, and they reside at No.
44 Bishop Street. In religious faith Mr. Beaudin is a Roman
Catholic. In all matters of citizenship pertaining to the
material, intellectual, political and moral progress of the
community he is deeply interested, but after all he regards the
law as his real life work.


SIR WILLIAM HALES HINGSTON, KT., M. D.

Sir William Hales Hingston, Kt., M. D., whose professional
activities constituted valuable contributions to the world’s
work, his ability winning him wide recognition and high honors
from various scientific bodies, was born at Hinchinbrooke,
province of Quebec, June 29, 1829, a son of the late Lieutenant
Colonel S. J. Hingston, of His Majesty’s One Hundredth Regiment.
He was a representative of a distinguished Irish family, closely
related to the Cotters of Cork, the Latouches of Dublin and
the Hales. He supplemented his early education, acquired in a
local academy, by study in St. Sulpice, now Montreal College,
and having determined upon the practice of medicine as a life
work, he prepared for his chosen calling by a course in McGill
University, which he completed with the class of 1851. He
further carried on his investigation, study and research abroad,
obtaining a diploma in the Royal College of Surgery at Edinburgh
in 1852, and subsequently obtaining diplomas in France, Prussia,
Austria and Bavaria. He was the first Canadian to whom was
accorded the honor of membership in the Imperial Leopold Academy
at Vienna.

Dr. Hingston entered upon the active work of his profession in
Montreal and continued an eminent member of the profession to the
time of his death, winning notable renown in surgery. His ability
along that line constantly developed. He possessed the steady
hand and the cool nerve of the surgeon and his professional
skill gained him rank with the most prominent representatives
of the profession on the American continent. For many years he
was surgeon in the Hotel Dieu Hospital, where he gave clinical
instructions in surgery. He was also governor of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons and at one time was its president. He
was honored with election as a first secretary of the Canadian
Medical Association, and later was called to its presidency.

He was the organizer of the first board of health in the
Dominion, and his efforts in behalf of sanitary interests were
far reaching and beneficial. Not only did he display marked skill
in surgery, but also eminent ability as an educator, and upon
the organization of Bishop’s College Medical School was chosen
professor of surgery and clinical surgery, and became dean of
the faculty, but at length was forced to sever his connections
with that institution, owing to the many other demands made upon
his time and services. He never refused to respond to a call for
professional aid if he could possibly meet it, and it would be
difficult to name a physician and surgeon of Canada whose labors
have reached out beneficially to a larger number of people.
When, during an epidemic of smallpox, a local board of health
was organized, Dr. Hingston was made its chairman, and he also
became chairman of the provincial board of health, when in 1885
the province was again being visited by that calamity. He was an
energetic advocate of vaccination.

It was but natural that a man of his ability and position should
have written much upon professional topics. He was a valuable
contributor to the medical literature of his day, one of his
most important publications being his “Climate of Canada and
its Relation to Life and Health,” published in 1885. Competent
authority pronounced this “the fullest work, which has appeared
on the subject and apart from its economic and ethnological
value, is, from its pleasing style, delightful to read.”
Scientific bodies conferred high honors upon Dr. Hingston and in
addition, he was elected an honorary member of different state
boards of medicine and by many state medical societies in the
United States. When the British Association for the Advancement
of Science visited Canada some years ago, he was chosen vice
president and not long afterward was elected an honorary member
of the British Medical Association.

His professional activity would alone entitle him to wide
distinction, yet he was active in other fields and in connection
with the public affairs of the country.

He became president of the Montreal City & District Savings Bank,
and also vice president of the City Passenger Railway Company. In
1875 Montreal elected him its mayor, and he served one term, when
he declined renomination. For coolness and judgment, which he
displayed during the Guibord affair in Montreal, he received the
thanks of the Earl of Dufferin, then governor general of Canada.
Bishop’s College University at Lennoxville conferred upon him the
honorary degree of D. C. L., while Victoria University of Toronto
gave him the honorary degree of LL. D. He was made vice president
of the Montreal branch of the St. John’s Ambulance Association
and in 1875 was appointed a commander of the Roman Order of St.
Gregory. Twenty years later, or on the 24th of May, 1895, he was
knighted by Her Majesty, the late Queen Victoria, and he was
called to the senate of Canada by the Earl of Aberdeen, January
2, 1896. His political allegiance was given to the conservative
party, and his study of vital questions and issues of the day
brought about the familiarity of Canadian politics, which enabled
him to discuss such subjects with those to whom such study was a
life work.

In 1875 Dr. Hingston was married to Miss Margaret Josephine
Macdonald, a daughter of the late Hon. D. A. Macdonald, at one
time lieutenant governor of Ontario. Her mother was Katherine,
the second daughter of the late Hon. Colonel Alexander Fraser of
Frasersfield, Ontario. Lady Hingston was educated in Montreal
and has been very prominent in charitable and benevolent work.
She is a member of the Ladies Committee L’Institute des Ecoles
Menageres, vice president of the Needlework Guild, honorary
president of the Loyola Literary Club; prominently identified
with the local League for the Prevention of Tuberculosis;
formerly president of the Woman’s Park Protective Association;
etc., and was elected president of the Catholic Girls’ Club of
Montreal (an association largely founded by her), in 1911.

Sir William Hingston was a member of the Roman Catholic church
to which Lady Hingston also belongs. He passed away on February
19, 1907, but there lives in the minds of those who knew him and
of the professional world at large, the memory of distinguished
service for the benefit of his fellowmen, in the path of his
chosen profession. A keen intellect, splendidly developed, was
brought to bear upon complex medical and surgical problems
and the result of deep thought, wise research and careful
investigation, made his contribution to the world’s work of the
utmost benefit.


HON. JAMES KEWLEY WARD.

Out of the struggle with comparatively small opportunities
Hon. James Kewley Ward came finally into a field of broad and
active influence and usefulness. Not seeking honor but simply
endeavoring to do his duty, honors were yet multiplied and
prosperity followed his undertakings. His father settled on the
Isle of Man and it was there that the son, James Kewley Ward, was
born on the 9th of September, 1819. He was reared and educated
at the place of his nativity but the opportunities of America
attracted him in early manhood, and he crossed the Atlantic
to New York, remaining for a decade in that city. His initial
experience in the new world was one of continuous advancement,
for the wise use he made of his time and opportunities brought
about the development and increase of his powers. He left New
York for Canada in 1853, and settling in Montreal engaged in the
lumber business, which he found a profitable field of labor,
owing to his keen discernment and his wise management of his
affairs. He also became deeply interested in the Canadian cotton
manufacturing industry and in time came to rank with the leading
representatives of manufacturing and commercial interests in his
province.

Important and extensive as were his business affairs, Mr. Ward
never allowed these to preclude an active and helpful interest in
the municipal life or provincial welfare. For eighteen years he
was a valued member of the town council of Cote St. Antoine, and
for nine years he was mayor, giving to the city a businesslike
and progressive administration that brought about needed reforms
and improvements. In 1882 and again in 1887 he was defeated in
the dominion general election, after which he was appointed to
the legislative council in 1888 and in 1903 was made a member of
the council of public instruction. He reached the remarkable old
age of ninety-one years, yet remained an active factor in the
work of the legislative council, being seen daily at his desk in
the legislature, taking a keen interest in many public questions
which were submitted for consideration. He was a liberal and his
position upon any vital issue was never an equivocal one. He
stood stalwartly in defence of what he believed to be right and
for the best interests of the province at large. He was a man of
broad vision, whose public service was characterized by no petty
personal prejudices. Duty was his watchword in public office, and
he seemed to view a vital question from every possible standpoint.

Hon. Mr. Ward was connected with various public institutions,
having to do with the welfare and benefit of the unfortunate
or tending to alleviate hard conditions of life for the needy.
He was a governor of the Montreal General Hospital and of the
House of Industry and Refuge, was president of the Protestant
Hospital for the Insane and president of St. George’s Society
and other organizations. He passed away October 2, 1910, having
kept his faculties unimpaired to the last. To build up rather
than to destroy had ever been his broad policy, and through life
he had attacked every important work which he undertook with a
contagious enthusiasm.


JOSEPH MEDARD GUINDON.

Joseph Medard Guindon, engaged in the real estate business in
Montreal since December, 1908, was born at St. Ignace du Coteau
du Lac in the county of Soulanges, on the 23d of March, 1866, a
son of Jules and Marguerite (Wilson) Guindon the father born at
St. Eustache and the mother at Coteau du Lac. The ancestry of
the Guindon family can be traced back to Pierre Guindon, who was
born in 1648 and died September 27, 1733. He married Catherine
Rouchallet dit Bergerac, who died August 22, 1710. To his
marriage were born three children. The eldest son, Jean Baptiste
Guindon, was born September 15, 1707, and married, February 14,
1729, Madeleine Labette. Pierre Guindon, the second son, was born
in 1708, and died October 7, 1709. Paul Guindon, the youngest
son, was born August 21, 1710, and married November 16, 1733,
Marie Josette Aube dit Aubert, to which marriage were born two
sons: Paul, August 20, 1735; and François, March 23, 1737. Paul
Guindon married Marie Amable de Maisonneuve in 1770 and had one
son, Amable, born in 1772. Amable Guindon married in 1809 and
had a son, Magloire, born October 15, 1811. Magloire Guindon
was married in 1835 to Josette Guindon, his cousin. He took up
arms at the revolt of St. Eustache in 1837, was arrested and
imprisoned for a period of seven months after the confiscation
of the greater part of his goods. To his marriage were born
six children of whom Jules, born in 1840, married Marguerite
Wilson, May 20, 1865, at Coteau du Lac. To them were born eleven
children, the most of whom died at an early age.

Joseph Medard Guindon was a student in l’Ecole du Plateau in
Montreal, where he completed the commercial course in 1882. He
then turned his attention to the hardware trade and in 1897
became a hardware merchant in Valleyfield, where he conducted
business for nine years. In 1907 he established a hardware
store in Montreal, of which he was proprietor for two years. In
December, 1908, he opened a real estate office with L. D. Latour
under the firm name of Latour & Guindon, in which business he has
since been engaged with a large capital. He has personally made
investments in improved property and vacant land and his holdings
are now very extensive. As real estate agent and expert he has
a large clientage and his business is growing year by year. He
is thoroughly informed concerning realty values and the energy
and enterprise which he displays in carrying on his work have
constituted the salient forces in the attainment of his success.

Mr. Guindon has been twice married. On the 30th of June, 1886, he
wedded Rosalinda Bourdon, a daughter of Narcisse and Marie Anne
(Bisaillon) Bourdon, and to this marriage was born one son, Paul
Herve, whose birth occurred at Valleyfield, April 2, 1898. On
October 7, 1902, Mr. Guindon was again married, his second union
being with Marie Rose Anne Sevigny, a daughter of Philias and
Madeleine (Cantin) Sevigny. The children of this marriage are:
Marguerite, Marcelle, Suzanne, Juliette, Mario, Robert, Jacques
and Jean Rodrigue.

[Illustration: J. M. GUINDON]

While living in Valleyfield Mr. Guindon served as city alderman
from 1898 till 1904. He manifests a deep interest in municipal
affairs and all lines of public progress, but has never been
ambitious to hold office, preferring to concentrate his energies
upon his business interests, which are now extensive and
important.


WILLIAM PATTERSON, K. C.

William Patterson was born in Ormstown, Quebec, and is a son of
the late Samuel Patterson. He was educated at the public school
of Ormstown; Huntingdon Academy at Huntingdon, Quebec; McGill
University of Montreal, which institution conferred upon him the
degree of B. A. with first rank honours in classics, in 1886,
M. A., in 1889, and B. C. L., in 1895; and at Laval University,
which granted him the LL. B. degree in 1900.

Mr. Patterson was principal of the Royal Arthur school at
Montreal from 1888 to 1898, during which time he organized and
directed a movement in favor of a school history of Canada,
written from a Dominion instead of a provincial point of view,
the object being, while the history of our country is told from
its earliest periods, to direct, as far as possible, the mind of
the reader from the various currents of provincial history into
the broader channel of the Dominion and to make the boys and
girls of Canada feel as they grow up into the responsibilities
of citizenship that under confederation we have a united country
and a united people. He addressed in support of the movement the
Provincial Association of Protestant Teachers of the Province
of Quebec at their annual convention in McGill Normal school,
Montreal, in October, 1889, and also addressed the Teachers
of the Province of Nova Scotia at their annual convention, in
Halifax, in December, 1890. He also read before the Royal Society
of Canada at Montreal in June, 1891, a paper entitled A Proposal
for a Dominion Text-Book of Canadian History. He was appointed
secretary of the Dominion history committee, with the Hon. George
W. Ross, later Sir George W. Ross, as chairman, by the Dominion
Educational Association at its first meeting, which was held
in Montreal in July, 1892. The result of these efforts was the
organization of the Dominion history prize competition, open to
authors of recognized ability, and the publication in June, 1897,
of The History of the Dominion of Canada, by W. H. P. Clement,
B. A., LL. B., which had been awarded the first prize, and of A
Canadian History for Boys and Girls, by Miss Emily P. Weaver,
which had been awarded the second prize--both works written from
the viewpoint indicated above.

Mr. Patterson organized at Ormstown, Quebec, in 1888, the
Chateauguay Literary and Historical Society and was its
corresponding secretary from that time until 1895, when, under
the auspices of the society and in the presence of over seven
thousand people, many of whom had come from a distance, a
monument erected on the Chateauguay battlefield by the Dominion
government, the outcome of a long agitation, was unveiled in
memory of Colonel de Salaberry’s brilliant victory of 1813 over
the American invading army.

Mr. Patterson was called to the Quebec bar in July, 1901, and has
since successfully practiced his profession at Montreal, where
he is the attorney of the Dominion Alliance and of other bodies.
He is the author of the Handbook of Commercial Law, published in
1904. In 1910 he was appointed joint crown prosecutor for the
district of Beauharnois and in April, 1912, was created a king’s
counsellor.

Mr. Patterson married Miss Naomi Florence Smith, a daughter
of Robert Smith, of Westmount, Quebec, in July, 1909. He is a
liberal in politics and has taken an active part on the hustings
in all federal and provincial elections at Montreal and in
its vicinity since 1900. His church membership is held in the
Presbyterian denomination, and he is a member of the Canadian and
Reform Clubs of Montreal. His residence is at 2290 Mance Street,
Montreal.


WILLIAM HENRY ATHERTON.

William Henry Atherton was born on November 15, 1867, in Salford,
a suburb of Manchester, in Lancashire, England, of Joseph
Atherton, sanitary engineer, and Sarah (Nicholls) Atherton. His
grandfather, William Atherton, was of a line of merchants and
was the last volunteer fire chief in Salford where in Peel Park
Museum his famous fire dog “Lion” held an honoured place. His
maternal grandfather’s family of Nicholls had farms in Yorkshire
and previously in North Wales.

William Henry Atherton spent his early boyhood at the old
cathedral city of Norwich in Norfolk, and in 1879, at the age of
twelve, started his classical studies at Stonyhurst College, in
Lancashire, graduating from the class of Rhetoric in 1886 and
matriculating the same year in the first class in the University
of London. After several years’ further classical studies he
entered the course of scholastic philosophy at St. Mary’s
College, Stonyhurst, and at the end of the third year, in 1895,
presented his theses in Universa Philosophia, which he passed
with distinction “aptus ad docendum,” the degree being equivalent
to the Doctorate of Philosophy, which was, after a further
thesis on “Beatitudo Finalis” accepted as _ad eundum gradum_ at
the University of Ottawa in 1908. From 1898 to 1902 he pursued
a four years’ course of scholastic divinity at St. Beuno’s
College, St. Asaph, North Wales. When not engaged in the above
courses he taught for nearly ten years as a professor of classics
and elocution at Stonyhurst College, Lancashire, and Beaumont
College, Old Windsor, Berkshire, two of the principal “public
schools” of England. At both of these colleges he had charge of
the dramatic performances, which are a recognized and important
feature in their educational system. There he produced many
of the best examples of the classical drama as well as of the
best modern plays. He also had charge of the preparation of the
annual or term “academies” or “speech days” and thus his students
presented parts of Latin, Greek, English and French classical
pieces.

On coming to Canada in 1907 William Atherton taught classics
for a year at St. Albert, Alberta, at the Bishop’s Seminary,
assisting Mgr. Légal in the preparation of a history of the
Catholic church in North Alberta. In 1908 he taught classics
at Loyola College, Montreal. Since then he has filled other
educational posts in the city as lecturer in psychology and
ethics at the College for the Higher Education of Women,
established in connection with Laval University; professor of the
English course in the new “Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales”
erected by the Gouin government in 1910, and from 1911 he has
also been an examiner in Arts for the entrance examinations
conducted by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of the
province of Quebec. During his career in Montreal Dr. Atherton
has identified himself with most phases of the sociological
problems of the city. In 1908 he was invited to assume the
managership of the Catholic Sailors’ Club, a position he still
holds. In 1909, when the City Improvement League was established,
he was selected to become the executive secretary. He is a member
of the Civic Secretaries’ Association in connection with the
National Municipal League of America, a member of the National
Housing Association, the International City Planning Conference
and the American Civic League. At the Toronto convention of the
International City Planning Congress held in June, 1914, he was
appointed by the Canadian delegates to represent them before
the Commission of Conservation of the Dominion government to
urge the creation of a special Municipal Improvement Bureau
in connection with that Commission, to co-operate with and to
organize the various movements for city planning, housing and
civic improvements in the Dominion. He has taken an active part
in most of the recent Civic Improvement and Good Government
movements in Montreal, being one of the pioneers in affecting the
appointment of the Metropolitan Parks Commission for Montreal,
and a consistent advocate of better housing conditions for the
working classes. He was the organizing secretary of the notable
Child Welfare Exhibition held in Montreal in the Drill Hall on
Craig Street in October, 1912. In 1914 he was a member of the
executive committee of the “clean-up week” movement, a great
public health movement which was taken up by the whole city, in
which he acted as chairman of the Co-operation Committee.

[Illustration: WILLIAM H. ATHERTON, PH. D.]

Dr. Atherton has been the author of many contributions and
criticisms to literary, philosophical and civic journals. His
first work, published anonymously under the auspices of the
Catholic Truth Society of England, was the Life of Father
Damien, the Leper Priest, which appeared in England in 1889,
attracting attention as the first authentic life then published.
Dr. Atherton has identified himself with the literary life of
Montreal. He was one of the founders of the Montreal branch of
the Dickens’ Fellowship of which he has been vice president for
three years and president for the years 1912-1913-1914. He is the
author of the two volumes of the history of Montreal under the
French Régime and under the English Rule now being published.


HON. RAYMOND PREFONTAINE.

Joseph Raymond Fournier Préfontaine was a member of an old
French family which was established in 1680 in New France. Mr.
Préfontaine was born at Longueuil on the 16th of September, 1850.
He began his education under private tutors and completed his
classical studies at St. Mary’s College under the direction of
the Jesuit Fathers. He obtained his Bachelor’s degree at McGill
University and was admitted to the bar in 1873. While taking up
his private practice he began at the same time occupying himself
with public affairs with success.

There are few men who, step by step, possessed more than he the
rare gift of being always the man of his time and who at all
times retained the favor of his friends. He made his debut in
municipal politics as alderman for Hochelaga, and in 1879 became
the mayor of that municipality, which honorary post he held until
1884. At this period the progress of Montreal was slow, it being
the custom to retard rather than hasten her development. The
town and city officers at that time were struggling along with
inadequate acts and regulations. They were like the undeterred
scientists of old who obstinately tried to solve the problem
of squaring the circle although without the slightest vestige
of success. New blood was needed and Hochelaga supplied the
first infusion in the person of Mr. Préfontaine. When Hochelaga
was annexed to Montreal Mr. Préfontaine became alderman of the
Montreal council and president of the public works commission.
The task which confronted him was not a small one. On the one
hand he had to fight against a routine held sacred, and on the
other hand against a majority which was absolutely neglecting the
eastern part of Montreal.

In 1898 Mr. Préfontaine was mayor of Montreal and began to
carry out his program of action. Nothing was neglected for the
advancement of the city, and he employed to the utmost his legal
acumen and ability in restoring Montreal to her rights. From
that time he displayed a deep and abiding devotion to Montreal
East which owes so much to him, his labors in this connection
being the crowning achievement of his efforts. It was he who gave
to the city the Viger railroad station, and this was in itself
but a small matter when compared with the shipbuilding yards,
the mammoth warehouses and thousands of habitations that he by
his persistency won for the French region of the metropolis. He
thought of everything; the street railway service, the electric
lighting system, the street paving, all these bore the stamp of
his personality. He was sometimes unjustly accused of lending
himself to questionable deals but always emerged from these
ordeals without a stain upon his character or a shadow of doubt
remaining as to the entire justification of his actions.

He was the Haussman of the city. It was generally known that
he was the friend of the working men and would defend their
interests as his own. It was but natural therefore that the
workingmen of Hochelaga were his best friends and his stanchest
partisans. They were his standard bearers throughout the entire
town and were the first who made possible his election to the
magistracy of the city. Mr. Préfontaine lifted Montreal out of
the old routine and after he was elected mayor all worked hand
and glove with him in order to crown his work, and it is not
short of the truth to say that a complete reorganization of the
municipal autonomy took place.

Hon. Mr. Préfontaine at the time of his death had been in
politics for thirty years. In 1875 he was elected member of
parliament from Chambly to the legislature of Quebec and
continued to represent that county from 1886 to 1896 in the
Dominion parliament. In his early days he served as president
of the Young Men’s Liberal Association and later as president
of the Club National. He was always the man of the hour. His
remarkable popularity, the wide prestige which he enjoyed in the
liberal party and the financial world, his intimate knowledge
of political and administrative affairs, all betokened him the
foremost man in the province of Quebec and more particularly in
the district of Montreal. He was actively interested in all the
movements of his party; few were the counties which he did not
visit during the campaigns, and he took part in all the important
debates. From his debut he was always in the public eye. Men
like him are always the first in all ranks of life. One sees him
ceaselessly battling when vital interests are at stake. At the
general elections of 1900 he was elected by a large majority
for Maisonneuve and Terrebonne. At the time of his death he was
representing Maisonneuve, which had elected him by a majority of
twenty-five hundred votes. When the Hon. Mr. Tarte resigned from
the Laurier cabinet Mr. Préfontaine was prevailed upon to accept
the portfolio of marine and fisheries. It is to him that Canada
owes the fine organization of this department and the excellent
results obtained.

Let us recall what he wrote regarding this subject on the 21st
of October in Le Soleil: “We receive every day confirmation of
the happy news that the harvest of this year will surpass all
hopes. In fact, everything indicates that it will be phenomenal.
The Grain Merchants Association values for only the west the
production of wheat at ninety-one and a half millions bushels;
that of oats at sixty-seven millions of bushels; that of flax at
half a million. On the other side the reports from Quebec and
Ontario are excellent. There is no doubt that our exportations
of agricultural products will this year largely exceed those of
1903, our maximum year, which amounted to one hundred and fifteen
million dollars. These figures are so outstanding that they speak
for themselves. They mean that the facilities of transportation
will have to be considerable to ship all of this,--that is that
the St. Lawrence route will be largely put in requisition to
export our grain and in return, for the importation of articles
sent in exchange. But they signify also that large sums of money
will come into the treasury and that the St. Lawrence route will
well merit its share. The St. Lawrence begins at the head of
Lake Superior and goes as far as Belle Isle, I may say nearly to
Newfoundland.

“One of my predecessors asked from Sir Wilfrid Laurier
twenty-five million dollars for the single purpose of deepening
the channel from Montreal to the Gulf. It is far from being
completed. Since the channel was started we have not yet expended
one-fifth of this amount and yet we can look backward with
confidence and contemplate with pride the work accomplished. It
is needless to give here the figures. Suffice it to say this is
not a financial treatise but a statement to the people, telling
them frankly that in less than five years we have created
from nothing at Sorel, the national workshops of maritime
construction, the most perfect, the best equipped, the best
managed in existence in Canada and which would do credit to any
other country. We have constructed the dredges and the apparatus
necessary for digging and maintaining the channel at a desirable
depth. The channel will be thirty feet in depth throughout
almost its entire course. We have reasonably widened the curves
wherever they were met. We have constructed signals and placed
buoys to extend as far as the gulf and join with the channel.
We have installed submarine bells and we are experimenting with
a new electrical system for the direction of the vessels in the
channel. We have made the channel between Montreal and Sorel as
light at night as it is by day. We are now replacing floating
fires with stationary fires. We have commenced and will continue
with powerful vessels specially constructed to this end to make
possible winter navigation and this trial, mark my words, will
culminate in good results. That is as a matter of fact quite a
goodly sum of finished work since Sir Wilfrid Laurier has come
into power and, without boasting too much, since he has entrusted
to your humble servant the portfolio of marine, so much decried
by our good friends, the conservatives.

“Now, as far as professional progress is concerned, we can
still cite without fear of criticism improvement of the law in
regard to pilots who are now under control of my department, new
conditions regarding more severe regulations, etc.; the revision
of the law for the examination of captains and mates; the
re-drafting of the law regarding the inspection of steamships;
the creation of a competent tribunal of nautical inquiries; the
establishment of navigation schools, and the organization of a
scientific system of oceanographic and hydrographic observations.
Here, in brief, between two viewpoints, we can, I believe,
address our friends in order to show them in a new and authentic
light the liberal work which has been done on the service of our
grand maritime route. But you say in Quebec that with all this
there still will be accidents on the river. This I cannot deny
and no one regrets it more keenly than I. There will be accidents
everywhere and these will happen in spite of all the precautions
taken and at the moment when they are least expected. It is for
this very reason that we call them accidents. Accidents happen
on the canals, they will happen in mid-ocean and they might even
happen in the port of Quebec if Providence so ordains, which I
sincerely pray, not.”

At the outbreak of the Boer war Mr. Préfontaine gauged public
feeling in Canada correctly and favored the contribution of men
to the cause of the Empire and also favored the establishment
of a Canadian navy. While maintaining offices in the city hall
he displayed remarkable faculty for winning friends. It was
said of him that no matter how bitterly opponents assailed him
he never bore resentment. As years went by this trait actually
made admirers out of those who had formerly been enemies. He
was always ready to do a friendly act and was naturally of an
optimistic temperament, being scarcely ever known to show a sign
of dejection or low spirits. A belief in the possibilities of an
undertaking always served as a stimulus to his intense activity,
usually accompanied by the desired results.

In June, 1876, Mr. Préfontaine married Miss Hermantine Rolland,
and unto them were born three sons: Rolland, a civil engineer
in Montreal; Fernand, of the firm of Préfontaine & Drouin,
architects of Montreal; and Adrien, now deceased.

Mr. Préfontaine died in Paris, France, December 25, 1905. At
that time Mr. Lawrence A. Wilson said of his dead friend: “As
the last candle lights were flickering out their little flames
upon the gilded Christmas trees that had made so many young and
old hearts happy, a cruel message, wrapped in thunder, reached
us. A man had died: Yes! a big, big man in the fullest sense
of the word. A generous friend he was always to the needful,
irrespective of color, creed or nationality and one whom I have
never known, during twenty years, to have harbored over night an
ill feeling against his greatest political foe. When I asked him
recently during a friendly conversation why he worked so hard to
the detriment of his personal interests and particularly of his
health, he replied, ‘My greatest pleasure is to be able to do
something for my friends.’ He was a kind husband to his devoted
but now sorrowing wife, a good father to his three bright boys, a
solid friend to all those he trusted and a faithful, unflinching
follower of his chief, Sir Wilfrid Laurier. That man was Raymond
Préfontaine.”

The Montreal Daily Star editorially said of him: “Canadian
public life has produced few men who would be more sincerely
mourned by an army of personal friends than will the late Raymond
Préfontaine. He was a man who was always bigger than his party,
bigger than his numerous victories and broader in his sympathies
than many a man who made more display of public spirit. A
genuine liking for the big, generous man pervaded all classes
of the community and was no small share of his strength in any
political contest. His death comes at an exceedingly bad time
for the country, just when he had taken up the problem of the
St. Lawrence channel in real earnest and was bent upon giving us
a clean bill of health. He has hardly been long enough in the
federal field for the nation to learn to know him as he has long
been known in this district. As a public man he has come in for
not a little criticism. He was a candidate who stood fire well
and was seldom irritated into replying with unwise petulance.
Perhaps at times he displayed too great a faith in the financial
recuperative powers of this city but after all is said and done,
that was a generous fault. At this moment our people will only
remember the attractive personality, the stanch British subject,
the warm-hearted political leader who lies dead in the French
capital.”

La Presse, whose editor, Mr. Dansereau, was a close personal
friend of the late Hon. Raymond Préfontaine, after referring to
the news of his death, continues: “We do not seek to hide our
deep emotion, for he was counted among our oldest friends, and
we were the last Canadians to grasp his hand before he embarked
at New York on the steamer which took him across. Had he any
presentiment? He was serious and pensive, nothing about him of
the ordinary joy which is connected with the perspective of a
short journey was shown in his manner. The distinguished deceased
had eminent qualities, for he was a man of action and energy.
He had done more in two years for the development and aiding of
navigation than all his predecessors in the department since
confederation. At least he has the merit of tracing a program
that must not be laid aside. Life is ephemeral; fame matters
little to him at this moment. But his family will have the
consolation of a heritage more precious than fortune, that of his
talent, his prestige, of his political and administrative worth.”


PROFESSOR THOMAS ALBERT STARKEY.

Professor Thomas Albert Starkey, a well known educator, lecturer
and physician of Montreal, was born in Hertford, England, a son
of Thomas Starkey. His early education was obtained in his native
town and in 1894 he was graduated from London University with
the degree of M. D. Subsequently he pursued a course in the
University Collegiate Hospital in London and was house surgeon at
the Brompton Hospital. Subsequently he was sent to India to carry
on researches and promote the cure and prevention of the plague
and cholera. He worked in the Imperial Research Laboratory in
Bombay from 1899 until 1901 and afterward was given charge, under
the sanitary commission, of the entire hygienic condition of two
large districts, his labors there being of inestimable value in
improving existing conditions.

On his return to England Dr. Starkey pursued public health work
in the laboratory of University College at London and was also
bacteriologist of the London county council. He came to the new
world in 1902, being appointed in November of that year professor
of hygiene at McGill University of Montreal. In 1906 he was
elected a fellow of the Royal Sanitary Institute of England and
is now secretary and examiner of the local branch of the same
body. In 1910 he was elected the first president of the Canada
Public Health Association in which connection his efforts have
been far-reaching and beneficial. Not only has he done important
practice and research work, but has also written upon questions
relating to the public health. He has lectured on the Ancient
and Modern Methods of Water Supply--A Comparison, and on kindred
subjects, all of which have to do with the public health and the
prevention of disease.

In September, 1904, Dr. Starkey was united in marriage to Miss
Josephine MacCullum, a daughter of the late Dr. Duncan Campbell
MacCullum, and they have one son, Hugh. It would be difficult to
measure the usefulness of the life work of Dr. Starkey, but the
scientific world acknowledges its indebtedness to his efforts
and his labors, far-reaching and effective, have been beneficial
forces for humanity in various sections of the world.


CHARLES CHAPUT.

It would be difficult to find a more active business man in
Montreal and one whose labors are more gratifyingly resultant
than Charles Chaput, who stands as one of the most successful
merchants of the metropolis, ranks among its most substantial
citizens and to quote the Montreal Gazette is “a man of
unimpeachable integrity.” He was born in Montreal, November 14,
1841, a son of the late Leander Chaput, who came to Montreal from
L’Assomption in 1832 and in 1842 founded what is now the well
known wholesale grocery house of L. Chaput, Fils & Cie, Limitee.
He lived to the age of eighty-four years, passing away in 1901.
His wife was Helene St. Denis, a daughter of J. B. St. Denis of
Montreal.

Charles Chaput acquired his education in the best French and
English schools in Montreal of the time. In 1857 at the age of
sixteen years he joined his father’s firm as a junior clerk, at
which time the firm was L. Chaput & Cie, and on his being made a
partner in 1862 the style was changed to L. Chaput, Fils & Cie.
In 1875 upon the retirement of his father Charles Chaput became
the head of the firm, where he has since remained, although there
have been many changes since in its personnel. In 1884 L. E.
Geoffrion was admitted a partner and for years was actively
interested in the conduct and management of the business. In
1896 E. St. Denis retired after having been a partner for
forty years and in the same year Ferd Prudhomme was taken into
partnership. In 1899 Armand Chaput and in 1909 Emile Chaput, sons
of Charles Chaput, were admitted as members of the firm, which
was incorporated on February 1, 1912, under name of L. Chaput,
Fils & Cie, Limitee, Charles Chaput becoming president, Armand
Chaput vice president and manager and Ferd Prudhomme secretary
and treasurer. The house of L. Chaput, Fils & Cie, Limitee, has
attained a widespread, honorable and unassailable reputation in
business circles by reason of the straightforward and commendable
principles employed in the conduct of its large interests.

[Illustration: CHARLES CHAPUT]

For many years Mr. Chaput has maintained an extremely active
business interest not only in the large firm of which he is now
the head but also as a director in many other firms, in banks
and in financial institutions. As a member of the council of
the Board of Trade he has played a very important part in the
work of that organization. A governor of Notre Dame Hospital, he
has been largely instrumental in strengthening the finances of
that splendid institution. He was for several years a director
of La Banque d’Hochelaga and also of the Canada Life Insurance
Company. He has been a councillor of the Chambre de Commerce
and president of the Wholesale Grocers Guild. He is a director
of the International Mercantile Agency, also vice president of
the Montreal Business Men’s League and president of the Montreal
Citizens Association and has ever taken an active interest in
business matters and all things tending to promote the welfare of
the city and the uplifting of humanity.

His charitable instincts and activities are broad and varied.
Aside from the institutions above mentioned with which he is
connected he is also a governor of the Montreal General Hospital
and a member of the Montreal Dispensary. He cooperates earnestly
and effectively in many movements which have for their object the
alleviation of hard conditions of life for the unfortunate. In
religious faith he is a Roman Catholic.

Mr. Chaput has never entered the political field, yet he has
always maintained a deep and sincere interest in the political
affairs of the country. Furthermore, he has played a very
prominent part in municipal affairs and while not himself
directly interested or a seeker of place he has been one of the
leading figures in the organization of the Citizens’ Association
and a sturdy exponent of municipal government through the medium
of the Board of Control. He is progressive in all things, being
ever ready to give his support to any movement that will tend to
the improvement of conditions in Montreal.

Mr. Chaput married Rose Anne Smith, who died in September, 1883;
he then married Clara Chevalier, who died in July, 1893; his
third wife was L. Patoine in her maidenhood. He has a family of
three sons and two daughters, all born to the first marriage.
The eldest son, Rev. Father Charles Chaput, is a Jesuit priest
and a professor of philosophy. The second son, Armand Chaput,
is vice president of L. Chaput, Fils & Cie, Limitee. He married
Juliette Auger, a daughter of J. C. Auger, formerly registrar of
Montreal. The third son, Emile Chaput, is a director in the firm
and married Rosalie Loranger, daughter of the Hon. Mr. Justice
Loranger of Montreal. Rose Anna, the elder daughter, is the
widow of Mr. Gabriel Marchand, M. P., son of the late Hon. F. G.
Marchand, who was premier of the province of Quebec. Antoinette,
the younger daughter, is the wife of Mr. E. Desaulniers, notary,
of St. Lambert, P. Q.

Mr. Chaput holds membership in L’Association St. Jean Baptiste
and in the Antiquarian and Numismatic Society--associations which
show something of the nature of his interests and his delight in
research work.


AIME CHASSE.

Aime Chasse, advocate, was born at St. Elphége, Yamaska County,
Province of Quebec, October 9, 1886, of the marriage of Zoel
Chasse, a cultivateur, and Julie (Proulx) Chasse. He studied the
classics at the Seminaire de Nicolet, graduating with the degree
of Bachelor of Arts in 1908. He studied law at Laval University
in Montreal and at the same time in the office of Coderre &
Coderre, in Montreal, and was admitted to the bar in July, 1912.
Since the 1st of June, 1914, he has been a member of the law firm
of Archambault & Chasse. Mr. Chasse has been president of the
Association de la Jeunesse Conservatrice de Montreal since April
15, 1914. He has lived in Montreal since September, 1908. On
January 7, 1911, he married Alphonsine Boisvert, of St. Elphége.


HON. LIEUTENANT COLONEL SIR HUGH MONTAGU ALLAN.

Clubman, sportsman and business man of marked enterprise--in
these few words are summed up the life record of Sir Hugh
Montagu Allan, whose interests have been many and whose
activities far-reaching. To accumulate a fortune requires one
kind of genius, to retain a fortune already acquired, to add
to its legitimate increment and to make such use of it that
its possessor may derive therefrom the greatest enjoyment and
the public the greatest benefit, requires quite another kind
of genius. Sir Hugh Montagu Allan belongs to that younger
generation of business men of Montreal called upon to shoulder
responsibilities differing materially from those resting upon
their predecessors. In a broader field of enterprise they find
themselves obliged to deal with affairs of greater magnitude and
to solve more difficult and complicated financial and economic
problems.

Such was the position in which Sir Hugh Montagu Allan found
himself following the demise of his father, Sir Hugh Allan, an
eminent figure in shipping and financial circles of Canada. The
mother, Matilda Caroline (Smith) Allan, was the second daughter
of the late John Smith, a prominent merchant of Montreal and it
was in this city that Sir Hugh Montagu Allan was born October
13, 1860. His education acquired in Bishop’s College School at
Lennoxville, was supplemented by study in Paris, France. He was
a young man of but twenty-two years at the time of his father’s
death and under the terms of his father’s will entered the
firm of H. & A. Allan, steamship agents. It was in the latter
connection that they established the Allan Line of steamships,
then and now the most important factor in passenger service and
freight carrying trade between Great Britain and Canada. More
and more he has come into prominence, as he has given proof of
his power to carefully, systematically, wisely and successfully
promote the important interests of mammoth corporate concerns. He
is today president of the Merchants Bank of Canada, the Acadia
Coal Company, the Railway Securities Company, and vice president
of the Canada Paper Company and the Canadian Vickers, Limited.
His name is on the directorate of the Montreal Light, Heat &
Power Company, the Ogilvie Flour Mills Company, the Canadian
Transfer Company, the Labrador Company, the Dominion Iron &
Steel Company, the Dominion Steel Corporation, the Mutual Life
Association Company of Canada, the Canadian Cottons, Limited,
the Royal Trust Company, the Montreal Investment Trust and the
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Montreal.

In December, 1878, he assumed the name of Hugh Montagu instead
of Hugh Andrew Allan, by which he was previously known. Long
connected with the Montreal Board of Trade, he served as a
counselor for several years and as its treasurer in 1891 and
1892. Further interests of a public character which have profited
by his cooperation include the Montreal Horticultural and Fruit
Growing Association, of which he is a director and St. Andrew’s
Society, of which he is president. His prominence as a sportsman
is indicated in the fact that he is an ex-master of the Montreal
Hunt. His horses have won the Queen’s plate, the Montreal hunt
cup, members’ plate and hunters’ handicap steeplechase cup. Sir
Hugh Montagu Allan is now president of the Montreal Jockey Club,
vice president of the Canadian Racing Association and director
of the International Horse Show Association. He was formerly
vice president of the Montreal Racket Club and a director of the
Montreal Skating Association and the Amateur Skating Association
of Canada. His activities have touched many benevolent and
charitable projects. He has been a director of the Sailors’
Institute, the Charity Organization Society, the Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and is vice president of the
Montreal General Hospital. He gave five thousand dollars to the
Charles Alexander Memorial Fund and the Allan Cup as a perpetual
trophy for competition between amateur hockey clubs in 1910. He
is one of the founders of the Mount Royal Club and the Winter
Club at Montreal.

In October, 1893, Sir Hugh Montagu Allan wedded Marguerite Ethel
Mackenzie, a daughter of the late Hector Mackenzie of Montreal.
She was elected a member of the Central Council Victoria League
at London, England, in 1909, and is honorary president of the
Daughters of the Empire in Montreal. Sir Hugh and Lady Allan at
their Montreal home, Ravenscrag, entertained H. R. H. Prince
Arthur of Connaught in 1906, and H. I. H. Prince Fushimi of Japan
in 1907. Sir Hugh was presented to the late King Edward in March,
1910, and Lady Allan was presented in July, 1906. He was knighted
June 24, 1904, became C. V. O. in 1907, and Order of the Rising
Sun of Japan (third class) in 1907. He was appointed honorable
lieutenant colonel of the First Battalion, Fifth Regiment,
Royal Highlanders, in 1911. His religious faith is that of the
Presbyterian church. In addition to Ravenscrag in Montreal, Sir
Hugh has a summer home, Montrose, at Cacouna, and another estate,
Allancroft, in Beaconsfield, province of Quebec. That he is an
eminent and well known figure in club circles is indicated by the
fact that he belongs to the St. James Club, Mount Royal Club,
Canada Club, Auto and Aero Club, Montreal Hunt, Montreal Jockey
Club, Winter Club, Royal Montreal Golf Club, Royal St. Lawrence
Yacht Club, Canadian Club, Forest and Stream Club, Lachine
Boating and Canoeing Club, Montreal Curling Club, Back River Polo
Club, Montreal Racket Club, Montreal Thistle Curling Club, all
of Montreal; Toronto Club, York Club of Toronto; Rideau Club,
of Ottawa; Racquet and Tennis Club and Knickerbocker Club, of
New York; and Junior Carlton Club, Canada Club, and Royal Thames
Yacht Club, of London, England.

The subjective and objective forces of life are in him well
balanced, making him cognizant of his own capabilities and
powers, while at the same time he thoroughly understands his
opportunities and his obligations. To make his native talents
subserve the demands which conditions of society impose at the
present time is the purpose of his life, and by reason of the
mature judgment which characterizes his efforts at all times,
he stands today with those whose activity in various lines does
not exclude active participation in and support of other vital
interests which go to make up human existence.


LOUIS EDOUARD FORTIER, M. D.

Dr. Louis Edouard Fortier, one of the most prominent of the
French physicians of Montreal, was born in the city of Quebec,
February 11, 1865, a son of Edouard and Celina (Marcotte)
Fortier. The paternal grandfather, Louis Fortier, was a farmer
and was the founder of the village of Fortierville, while his son
Edouard was a merchant in the city of Quebec.

The family removed to Montreal during the Doctor’s boyhood and
both parents passed away in this city. Two brothers of Dr.
Fortier are still living: one, Dr. Joseph Emile, is one of the
busiest medical practitioners of Montreal; the other, Joseph
Auguste, a well known writer, after having traveled all around
the world settled in India about fifteen years ago, and is
principal and superintendent of the Agha Engineering School, in
Fyzabad, Oudh.

Dr. Fortier was educated in the Jesuit College of Montreal, after
which he studied medicine in Victoria University, being graduated
therefrom with the degree of M. D. in the class of 1889. He was
at once appointed demonstrator of anatomy at Victoria University
and physician to the Hospital Hôtel-Dieu. These positions he
filled in addition to attending to his private practice, which
has been extensive from the beginning, and he has been regular
physician to the Hôtel-Dieu since 1889. After some years devoted
to active practice, he further continued the study of his
profession in Paris and London, coming in touch with the work
of eminent physicians and surgeons in both cities. He ranks
high in hospital work and is widely recognized as a learned and
able member of the profession, who is constantly promoting his
knowledge through reading, research and investigation. He is
also classed with the able educators and at the present time is
professor of pharmacology and therapeutics in Laval University.

A scholar and a good writer, Dr. Fortier has been during
many years editor of La Gazette Médicale de Montréal, the
official organ of the Victoria University Medical School
in Montreal before the affiliation of this school with Laval
University. Since that time, besides many valuable contributions
to medical reviews, Dr. Fortier published a few years ago a
Handbook of Medicine for Nurses, and last year a Manual of
Pharmacology,--according to the British Pharmacopœia, this
last book being especially for the use of students and young
practitioners.

[Illustration: DR. LOUIS E. FORTIER]

Dr. Fortier is an active social worker and is particularly
interested in the work of medical dispensaries. He is now medical
director of the Institut Bruchési, founded for the treatment of
tubercular patients; medical superintendent of the Sacred Heart
Hospital for the Indians, at Caughnawaga; and chief director
of the dispensaries of l’Assistance Maternelle, instituted to
provide attendance to the sick women of the poorer classes.

Dr. Fortier married Miss Emma Mathieu of Lachenaie and to them
have been born two sons, Louis Edouard and Jacques Emile. Madame
Fortier belongs to one of the oldest French-Canadian families
of this country and is favorably known in social as well as
charitable circles of this city.


LIEUTENANT COLONEL JOSEPH P. COOKE.

On the list of those whom death has recently called appears
the name of Lieutenant Colonel Joseph P. Cooke, whose career
in political and military life was a notable one. Liberal
educational opportunities and thorough training qualified him
for the bar, and he was recognized as an able and learned member
of the profession. His abilities recommended him for political
leadership and he was called to important public offices. Quebec
numbered him among her native sons, his birth having occurred in
Drummondville in 1858. His father was Valentine Cooke and his
grandfather, an officer in the army, received a land grant from
the British government in recognition of his services.

Lieutenant Colonel Cooke attended St. Francis College in
Richmond, there pursuing his more specifically literary
education, while in McGill University he prepared for the bar
and was graduated B. C. L. in 1880. The following year he was
called to the bar of Montreal and entered upon active practice
in partnership with Charles Brookes, K. C. Subsequently he began
practice independently and was widely recognized as a strong and
able lawyer, whose legal counsel was sound and whose powers of
discrimination and analyzation enabled him to readily master all
the details of his cases and win success in their conduct. In
1893 he was created king’s counsel.

While in the practice of law Colonel Cooke passed far beyond the
point of mediocrity and won place with the capable members of
the Montreal bar. He was also active as a political leader and
participated in many of the contests of his day. Originally his
support was given the conservative party and as its candidate he
won the seat for Drummond county in 1892, remaining a member of
the provincial house throughout the session. He was ever fearless
in support of his honest convictions, however, and when he was
led to change his opinions by reason of his study of political
conditions and situations he did not hesitate to become a liberal
and in 1897 contested the seat for St. Lawrence division, but
was defeated by A. W. Atwater, K. C. Soon after the election
he was named crown prosecutor and acted in that capacity with
Rudolph Lemieux, K. C. He was succeeded in the position by Edmund
Guerin, K. C., now the Hon. Justice Guerin. In 1907 Colonel
Cooke was named registrar for Montreal West and continued in
that position until his demise. While in the legislature he
was instrumental in securing the passage of a bill prohibiting
the sale or use of tobacco or opium to or by minors. He never
hesitated to advocate the principles which he deemed beneficial
measures in good government or factors in the welfare and
progress of city and province.

Colonel Cooke’s connection with military affairs began when he
joined the volunteer militia service, in which he was advanced
through positions of minor rank until he assumed command of the
First Regiment, Prince of Wales Fusiliers. After five years, or
in 1903, he retired and was placed on the R. O. with his rank.
He commanded the Bisley team in 1898. In 1902 Colonel Cooke was
presented to the present king and queen at St. James’ palace. He
was also presented to King Edward and by invitation was present
in Westminster Abbey at the coronation of the late King Edward
and Queen Alexandra in 1902.

In 1880 Colonel Cooke married Miss Helen Grace Burnett, a
niece of the late Archbishop Bond, and they became the parents
of a daughter and two sons. Violet Burnett; Herbert G., who
was educated in the city schools and McGill University and is
connected with the office of registrar of Montreal West; A.
Douglas, educated in the city schools and McGill University, is
now connected with the engineering department of the Canadian
Pacific Railway. He married Nita K. Wallace. The death of Colonel
Cooke occurred on the 28th of July, 1913, when he was but
fifty-five years of age. His record is one of usefulness in the
public service, of devotion to the interests of his clients and
of fidelity to the ties of home and friendship.


EDMUND HOLYOKE HEWARD.

A few years prior to his death Edmund Holyoke Heward of Montreal
retired from active business. He had been prominently connected
with banking interests, and his colleagues remember him as a
man of progressive spirit and marked capacity for handling the
multiplicity of details as well as the principal features that
arise in connection with the banking business. The family name
figures in the military history of the country. His grandfather,
Stephen Heward, was in command of a force of men at the capture
of Fort Detroit. The father, Augustus Heward, was associated
with Lieutenant Colonel Osborne Smith in founding the Victoria
Volunteer Rifles, now the Third Victoria Rifles, of which
Lieutenant Colonel Smith became the first commander, while Mr.
Heward became the first major, but subsequently succeeded to the
command.

Edmund H. Heward was born in the family residence at Cote des
Neiges, in 1841. He was educated under Dr. Howe at the Montreal
high school and entered into the wholesale hardware business
of Mulholland & Baker when in his teens. His initial business
experience came through several years’ connection with that
house, at the end of which time he entered the service of the
Merchants Bank of Canada, with which he was associated for
more than thirty years. Gradual advancement brought him to
an eminent position in banking circles. He possessed unusual
ability in co-ordinating forces and unifying elements into a
harmonious whole. For some time he was manager of the St. Johns
(Quebec) branch of the bank, but afterward returned to Montreal
and established the Notre Dame Street branch and later the St.
Catherine West branch of the same bank. As the years passed on
every feature of the banking business became familiar to him, and
his thorough understanding thereof was manifest in his executive
direction and capable control. He retired a few years prior
to his death, possessed of a handsome competence that was the
legitimate and logical reward of his effort and capability.

Mr. Heward married Miss Alice Ward, a daughter of the late Hon.
J. K. Ward of Montreal, and unto them were born six children. Mr.
Heward joined his father’s old regiment, the Victoria Rifles,
with which he went to the front in the last Fenian raid and was
present at the affair at Pigeon Hill. He was a handsome man of
fine physique and unfailing courtesy--a gentleman of the old
school. His death on May 17, 1910, occasioned deep regret in both
the business and social circles of Montreal.


ROBERT BRUCE TAYLOR, D. D.

Rev. Robert Bruce Taylor, author and minister of the gospel and
since 1911 pastor of St. Paul’s Presbyterian church in Montreal,
was born in Cardross, Scotland, October 22, 1869. He acquired
his education in Glasgow University, from which he was graduated
M. A. with the class of 1890, and he afterward was a student in
the Free Church College. After completing this course he entered
Gottingen University and later studied Arabic at Beirut and
Damascus. He was a student in three German theological schools
and prepared most thoroughly for his chosen life work. After
his ordination he was placed in charge of the Loudoun Free
Church in Ayrshire and was transferred from there to Ferryhill,
Aberdeen. His third charge was at St. John’s Wood, London,
England, whence in 1911 he came to Montreal, assuming his present
duties as pastor of St. Paul’s Presbyterian church. This is one
of the oldest Presbyterian congregations in the city, having
been organized in 1832 by Edward Black, D. D. The church was
located on St. Helen’s Street until 1867, in January of which
year the erection of the present edifice was begun. The church
was dedicated September 27, 1868, and cost $100,000. The first
pastor, Dr. Edward Black, died in May, 1845, and was succeeded
by Robert McGill, who passed away in 1856. Dr. Snodgrass then
had charge of the congregation until 1864 and his successor
was Dr. Jenkins, who remained in charge from 1865 to 1881. Dr.
Barkley did able and capable work from 1883 until 1910, being
succeeded by Rev. Robert Bruce Taylor, the present incumbent. The
congregation has numbered among its members such distinguished
men as Lord Strathcona and Lord Mount Stephen and it numbers
now eight hundred souls. Its affairs are in a flourishing and
prosperous condition for Dr. Taylor administers them ably and
in a way which shows him a man of excellent executive and
organizing power as well as a zealous and untiring religious
worker. He has organized a club of girls working in stores in the
city and has also a Men’s Club, both of which organizations have
been fruitful of much good.

Dr. Taylor married a daughter of Professor McKendrick, LL. D.,
of Glasgow, Scotland, and both are well known in social circles
in Montreal. Dr. Taylor is a writer of considerable reputation
and besides being the author of a book on Economics, written for
the Student Christian Movement, has contributed largely to serial
publications on religious and historical topics, accomplishing
such able and farsighted work in the interests of his religion
that he has been called “the crown jewel of a Presbyterian
minister.”


CHARLES AUGUSTE DE LOTBINIERE HARWOOD, K. C.

Charles Auguste de Lotbinière Harwood, a lawyer of the Montreal
bar, who prepared for practice at McGill and is now a member
of the well known firm of Lighthall & Harwood, was born at
Vaudreuil, P. Q., August 2, 1869, his parents being Robert
William and Charlotte (McGillis) Harwood. The father was member
of parliament for Vaudreuil in the house of commons from 1872
until 1878. The mother was a daughter of John McGillis, laird
of Williamstown, Glengarry, Ontario. The Harwoods are closely
connected with the de Lotbinière family and are seigneurs of
Vaudreuil.

Liberal educational opportunities equipped Charles A. Harwood
for the duties of a professional career. He was educated at St.
Laurent College and Laval University. His professional training
was received at McGill University, from which he was graduated
B. C. L. in 1893. He became an advocate in 1895 and is now
actively engaged in the practice of his profession in Montreal as
a member of the law firm of Lighthall & Harwood. His ability is
evidenced in the success which has attended his efforts in the
trial of important cases, which he has ever prepared with great
thoroughness and care. In October, 1911, he was made a king’s
counsel, his ability thus winning recognition.

In politics Mr. Harwood is a liberal-conservative, and his
activity in behalf of the principles in which he believes has
been an effective force in the attainment of success. He served
as secretary of the Conservative Association in the county of
Vaudreuil and became a recognized leader of his party. He has
been intimately connected with the municipal reform movements
of Montreal and served first as a director, then as recording
secretary and is now serving as vice president of the Montreal
Citizens’ Association.

In September, 1898, occurred the marriage of Mr. Harwood and
Miss Marie Adelaide Masson, a daughter of the late Hon. L. R.
Masson, lieutenant governor of Quebec. They reside at No. 162
Hutchison Street, Montreal, and have a summer home, Les Chenaux,
at Vaudreuil. Mr. Harwood belongs to the Liberal-Conservative
Club of Montreal and is a past president of the Cartier Club of
Montreal. He also has membership in the Historical Landmarks
Association, and after having been for many years honorary
recording secretary is now a vice president of the Numismatic
and Antiquarian Society of Montreal. He has delved deep into the
historic past and is the author of various valuable historical
papers, including one entitled The Fort Garry Convention. His
religious belief is that of the Roman Catholic church. A man of
broad intelligence and high ideals, his life record has counted
for much in the field of professional and scientific progress.

[Illustration: C. A. DE LOTBINIERE HARWOOD]


MAJOR DAVID SEATH.

Major David Seath occupies an important position in the public
service of the Dominion as secretary and treasurer of the harbor
commission of Montreal. He is a son of the late Robert Seath, a
wholesale clothing merchant of Montreal, and Margaret (Stephen)
Seath. Born in Montreal on May 9, 1847, he subsequently attended
the high school in this city and the parish school at Ste. Rose,
province of Quebec. In 1864 he entered the employ of his father
and subsequently became connected with the firm of Tyre, Perkins
& Lajoie, accountants and assignees, of which he subsequently
became a member under the firm style of Lajoie, Seath & Perrault,
which was formed in 1877. The firm also was for a time known
under the style of Thibaudeau & Seath, and of this firm our
subject was a partner until 1895. From that year until 1898 he
was president and manager of the Perrault Printing Company.
At that time he was also a member of the board of license
commissioners of Montreal. In 1898 he was appointed secretary and
treasurer of the harbor commissioners board of Montreal, which
office he has ever since held. His public record is one to be
highly commended.

Mr. Seath is a justice of the peace and has to his credit a long
military career in the volunteer service, his years of active
duty comprising those between 1864 and 1905. He joined the
Victoria Rifles as a private in 1864 and took part in the Fenian
raid in 1866 and 1870, receiving in the latter year the medal and
two clasps. During that time, in 1867, he was gazetted lieutenant
in the Sixth Regiment, Hochelaga Light Infantry. He attained the
rank of captain in the Sixth Fusiliers and in 1905 rejoined this
regiment, known as the “Prince of Wales’,” as paymaster with the
honorary rank of major, retiring in the same year. Besides his
Fenian raids medals and clasps, he holds the colonial auxiliary
forces officers’ long service decoration. He was instrumental
in having the services of the volunteers for the Fenian raids
recognized by the government. Besides acting as justice of the
peace he is also commissioner for receiving affidavits from
outside the province of Ontario to be used in Ontario and is
commissioner of the superior court of the province of Quebec.

Major Seath was married in September, 1904, to Miss Emma A. Fish,
of Westmount, on which occasion he was presented with a valuable
service of plate by the Montreal harbor commissioners. In
religious faith he is an Anglican and his political convictions
incline him towards the liberal party. Mr. Seath stands high
in Freemasonry, having attained the thirty-second degree. He
has been grand registrar of the grand lodge of Quebec and grand
scribe, grand treasurer and grand first principal of the grand
chapter of Quebec. He is a Knight Templar and an officer of
the A. & A. Scotish Rite. The family residence is at 95 Mackay
Street, Montreal. Hon. Robert Mackay, the distinguished statesman
and man of affairs, says of him: “An officer of long and faithful
service who was and is always at his post”; and this statement
expresses his faithfulness to duty perhaps better than anything
that could be said in addition.


ALBERT E. DE LORIMIER, K. C.

Albert E. de Lorimier is a successful and distinguished lawyer
of Montreal. He belongs to an old French family, one member of
which, Count de Chamilly, was marshal of France, and another,
Count d’Estoges de Lorimier, was executed with Louis XVI for his
loyalty and devotedness to his king.

His direct ancestor in Canada, Guillaume de Lorimier, sieur des
Bordes en Gatinais, came to Montreal in the seventeenth century
with Governor Marquis de Denonville. His great-grandfather,
Claude Guillaume de Lorimier, knight of the Royal and Military
Order of St. Louis of France, distinguished himself at Fort
George and at the siege of Corlar. His grandfather, Major
Guillaume de Lorimier, author of “My Services During the War of
the American Invasion,” served with his brother Chamilly under
General Sir Guy Carleton, Lord Dorchester, on Lake Champlain
in 1775. One of his uncles, Captain William de Lorimier of the
Fencibles, was killed at Chrysler’s Farm in 1813.

A. E. de Lorimier was born at Sault St. Louis, in the province
of Quebec, and is the son of Georges Antoine de Lorimier and
Mrs. Marie L. McComber. He acquired his early education at the
Huntingdon Academy, Huntingdon, completed his classics at St.
Mary’s College, Montreal, and was admitted to the practice of
law in July, 1885, after having graduated LL. B. from Laval
University. He speaks the French and English languages fluently
and equally well.

In October, 1886, he married Miss Mina de Lorimier, daughter of
Mr. Justice Charles Chamilly de Lorimier of Montreal, and both
are well known in social circles of this city.

Mr. de Lorimier first formed partnership with the Hon. F.
X. Trudel, late Senator; N. Charbonneau, now Mr. Justice
Charbonneau, and Gustave Lamothe, K. C., and later with Charles
Chamilly de Lorimier, now Mr. Justice de Lorimier, and finally
with D. Girouard, late justice of the supreme court of Canada.
In 1896 he took the Hon. Sir Auguste R. Angers in his firm known
as Angers, de Lorimier & Godin. He was created king’s counsel
in 1903 and was on several occasions elected member of the
council of the bar. He declined the honor to represent his native
county in the Dominion parliament and to stand as an alderman
in the Centre ward of Montreal, preferring to devote all his
time and knowledge to his clientage. He was in his earlier days
twice president of L’Union Catholique of Montreal and is a life
governor of Notre Dame Hospital and of L’Ecole Sociale Populaire.
He enjoys the reputation of being one of the prominent and most
respected barristers in Montreal. The future, undoubtedly, holds
for him still greater distinction and honor in his chosen field.

[Illustration: ALBERT E. DE LORIMIER]


HON. JOHN YOUNG.

For twenty-five years Hon. John Young was one of the harbor
commissioners of Montreal and no one did more for the development
and protection of the shipping industry at this point. Indeed his
whole life was largely devoted to the public service and there
are few men who have the insight and the prescience to recognize
possibilities and opportunities for the general good as he did
and the perseverance and determination to use such opportunities
for the benefit of the many. His country will ever remember him
with gratitude and his friends with deep affection, for aside
from his public career there were in him traits of character
that endeared him closely to those with whom he came in contact
through other relations. He bound his friends to him with hoops
of steel when their adoption had been tried, and at all times he
held friendship as something sacred and inviolable.

Born in Ayr, Scotland, March 11, 1811, Hon. John Young attended
the parish school, and his aptitude in his studies was manifest
in the fact that when but fourteen years of age he obtained the
appointment of master of the parish school at Coylton, near Ayr,
where he taught for eighteen months. He early developed the
habits of industry and cheerful perseverance which characterized
his after life and in 1826, when a youth of fifteen, he completed
his arrangements to become a resident of Canada, attracted by
favorable reports concerning the great opportunities of the new
world. His initial business experience here came to him as a
clerk in the employ of John Torrance and the development of his
powers and capacity is shown in the fact that in 1835, when but
twenty-four years of age, he became a partner of David Torrance
in the firm of Torrance & Young, which for five years continued
in business at Quebec.

From early manhood he was a student of the signs of the times and
business never claimed his undivided attention. He carefully and
systematically managed his interests, but he also found time to
perform the duties of citizenship wisely and well and he became
a leader of public thought and action. At an early day he urged
upon Lord Gosford the forming of volunteer corps but the governor
general felt there was little reason to comply with this request.
It was not long, however, before events proved the soundness of
his advice and when the rebellion came Mr. Young volunteered
for service in a regiment of light infantry which was raised in
twenty-four hours and in which he became a captain.

When his aid was no longer needed Mr. Young returned to Montreal
and became a partner of Harrison Stephens in the firm of
Stephens, Young & Company which occupied a prominent position
in business circles of Montreal for many years. His personal
interests took him largely over the west and in his travels and
his study of business conditions he saw how valuable was the St.
Lawrence system as a factor in the commercial history of the
American continent, furnishing the course of the natural routes
to the seaboard. It seemed that he never lost sight of any point
bearing upon the subject which came so close to his heart--the
development of the shipping industries of Montreal--and
eventually he became recognized as the greatest canal authority
in America.

Another important public enterprise with which he was associated
at about that period was the organization and establishment of
the Mercantile Library Association. Public feeling was not in
sympathy with such a movement at that time and only four people
were present when the system was formed. Writing of this period,
a contemporary biographer has said: “The change in public feeling
as to educational advantages then and now is well instanced by
the fact that, besides Mr. Young, only four persons were present
at the meeting when this society was commenced. In 1844 party
spirit ran high and serious trouble was expected at the general
election. Secret societies were in existence, and political
associations formed everywhere for the purpose, as was avowed, of
gaining by force what could not be secured otherwise. At such a
time the post of returning officer was difficult and dangerous,
and though the selection of a man to fill it might be esteemed
a high compliment to his personal character, it involved also a
personal risk which required the utmost coolness, determination,
tact and courage in the recipient. Lord Metcalfe’s advisers
selected John Young as the man for the emergency. The result
soon showed that their confidence had been well placed. Mr.
Young seems to have realized to the utmost the necessities and
perils of the office. Fearlessly, openly and with the utmost
judgment, he laid his plans so well and used the powers of his
position to such effect that, contrary to all expectation, the
election passed off without any breach of the peace. He seized
arms and other illegal weapons wherever they could be found,
and without regard to threats. When the secret societies became
openly defiant he called out the troops, who were ably managed
by him, and overawed the disorderly and turbulent so effectually
that no rioting took place. Mr. Young’s services were so highly
appreciated by Lord Metcalfe that they were mentioned in the
despatches sent to the Colonial office and were the subject
of special acknowledgment by the secretary of state for the
colonies. They were also warmly testified to by Sir James Hope,
who was then commander in chief at Montreal.”

Another important phase in Canadian life that called forth the
attention and the cooperation of Mr. Young was the principle of
free trade. He was one of its most stalwart champions, and upon
the organization of the Free Trade Association in this city he
became its president. He was a frequent contributor of articles
upon the subject to the Economist and to other papers and also
wrote pamphlets which had an important effect upon public thought
and action. He believed that the adoption of free trade measures
would constitute the most effective force in making Canada a
great commercial and business center. At times in his life his
ideas were ridiculed as those of a dreamer, but the years proved
the soundness of his vision and men came to rely upon his opinion.

His connection with the harbor work and the improvement of the
channel between Montreal and Quebec began in 1846 and later
occupied much of his time and attention. He was active, too, with
those who were foremost in furthering the railroad built, and
he was one of the organizers of the Montreal & Portland Railway
Company and also active in promoting the line from Montreal to
Toronto, as president of the company having that in charge. The
work was of a most difficult nature, for the promoters had to
solve at least in part the great engineering problems of railroad
building and not merely finance the project. It was Mr. Young
who proposed the building of a bridge across the St. Lawrence.
Again well known business men scoffed at the plan but the
Victoria bridge stands as a monument to his public spirit and his
enterprise, and has converted Montreal from a fifth rate harbor
into a first class port at a distance from the seaboard without
a parallel in the world. Mr. Young’s keen appreciation of the
capabilities of engineering as a profession and his confidence in
the application of education and trained reason to the overcoming
of all natural and mechanical difficulties which always was
noticeable in his intercourse with the professional men with
whom his life brought him into contact, was beyond doubt one of
the most effective means of securing consideration for this work
and of urging on the genius of Stephenson to an achievement then
supposed to be impossible. Men believed Mr. Young to be visionary
when he attempted the task of sounding the river that he might
point out the exact situation where the bridge should be built
and which it actually occupies. It was at about the same period
that he devised a plan for the Caughnawaga canal whereby to
connect the St. Lawrence river and Lake Champlain and thus secure
another outlet to the sea. His efforts were a notable force in
making Montreal a grain shipping center and when the St. Lawrence
canals were opened in 1849 he sent the first cargo of merchandise
from Montreal to Chicago and brought back the first cargo of
American grain. The rapid growth of shipping at this point and
certain trouble that arose concerning the unloading of vessels
impressed upon Mr. Young the need of a harbor police and he
presented the matter so forcefully to the government that a water
police force was created.

In 1851 Mr. Young by popular suffrage was made the representative
of his district in parliament and in October of that year became
chief commissioner of public works and a member of the board
of railway commissioners in the Hincks-Tache administration.
He advocated the building of a railroad from Halifax to Quebec
and Montreal and thence westward. His plans were not adopted at
that time and only came to fruition in 1877. In the same year he
strongly urged the establishment of a fortnightly mail service
between Montreal and Liverpool in the summer and between Portland
and Liverpool in the winter. In 1854 he was again made the
Montreal representative in parliament, where he entered earnestly
upon the work of chairman of the committee on public accounts.
In 1857 he declined to again stand for parliament, but it was
impossible for one of his nature to retire from public life so
conscientious was he regarding the duties of citizenship. In 1860
he retired from business with a handsome fortune and the same
year was chosen chairman of the committee of arrangements for the
most gigantic and successful series of entertainments ever held
in Montreal up to that time on the occasion of the visit of His
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, afterward King Edward. About
that time Mr. Young went to Scotland for the further education of
his family, returning in 1862. In 1863 he was the nominee of the
liberal party for Montreal West, but was defeated. In that year,
however, he was made a commissioner to Washington to consider the
reciprocity treaty.

All of these activities, although important, were less so than
his life work in making Montreal a seaport and improving the
navigation of the St. Lawrence. No other single project has so
greatly benefited the city and this section of the country. The
name of the Hon. John Young will always be connected with its
successful accomplishment and he is entitled to the grateful
remembrance of the citizens of Montreal for all time. He had
the opportunity of furthering his projects and plans of this
kind through his membership on the harbor board. As the result
of his efforts Montreal ceased to be a mere landing place for
boatmen and became a great shipping port. He had the greatest
faith in the possibilities of the growth of Montreal and with
it the progress of the Dominion and urged that this would be
brought about through the development of the St. Lawrence, which
he claimed to be the natural outlet for the western part of the
United States as well as for the products of western Canada.
As the result of his untiring labors in 1843 the government
determined to deepen Lake St. Peter but very little was done
until 1851. In 1854 Mr. Young entered upon active measures to
promote the work and by persistent efforts the channel was
deepened to sixteen feet in 1857 and still further the work
was continued until the channel depth became twenty-two feet.
Statistics could be cited showing how year by year the shipping
was increased after the work of river and harbor improvements
was begun. No other man did as much as Mr. Young in urging
these great improvements of the water communications connecting
Montreal with the sea. In all of his public service he looked
beyond the exigencies of the moment to the possibilities and
opportunities of the future, beyond the needs of his city
and immediate district to the questions affecting the entire
Dominion. In 1875 he served as chairman of the Baie Verte canal
commission and returned a most exhaustive and valuable report. He
was also the promoter of dock extension and secured the services
of the most eminent engineers of Europe and America to carry
forward the work.

Mr. Young’s prominence as a business man and public-spirited
citizen is further indicated in the fact that he was many times
elected president of the Montreal Board of Trade and was the
first president of the Dominion Board of Trade. After he had long
retired from parliament the members induced him to once more
stand for election, and he was returned by a most flattering
majority. In 1873 he would not consent to again become a
candidate and on the reorganization of the harbor board he was
reelected its chairman. His entire service on the board covered
a quarter of a century and during fourteen years of that time he
was chairman. His last public service was as commissioner for
Canada to the exposition in Sydney, Australia, whereby trade
relations between Canada and Australia were largely promoted as
the result of the reports which he made concerning the latter
country.

Time gives the perspective which places each individual in
his proper relation to his age. It is a well known fact that
investigation will but serve to heighten the fame of John Young,
for history has proven how valuable were his efforts, how far
reaching his activities, how clear his insight and how sound
his judgment. Today his name is inscribed high on the roll of
Montreal’s honored dead, while his memory is enshrined in the
hearts of many who knew him.


JOHN GORDON.

John Gordon, founder of the wholesale dry-goods commission
house of John Gordon & Son, of Montreal, was born in Aberdeen,
Scotland, December 12, 1833. He was a young man of twenty years
when in 1853 he came to Montreal to enter the employ of the
old and well known firm of William Stephen & Company. He was
afterward a member of the firm of James Roy & Company and from
December, 1891, until his death, which occurred on the 12th of
October, 1895, he was at the head of the wholesale house of John
Gordon & Son. His advancement was continuous, and the steps in
his orderly progression are easily discernible. His career was
one of constantly broadening activity, and his developing powers
contributed to the importance and extent of his achievements.
Few men have gained higher esteem and respect, and he left to
his family the rich heritage of an untarnished name, won through
business integrity and kindly courtesy, constituting an example
that others might profitably emulate.

[Illustration: JAMES R. GORDON]

[Illustration: JOHN GORDON]

Mr. Gordon was a member of the Board of Trade and was interested
in municipal affairs to the extent of giving hearty cooperation
to various plans and projects for the public good. His life was
actuated in its purposes by his Christian faith, which found
expression in his membership in the Erskine Presbyterian church.

Mr. Gordon married Miss Jane Roy, a daughter of James Roy, and
they became parents of three sons, Charles B., James R. and
William G. R. The second named, who was his father’s partner in
the firm of John Gordon & Son and is now head of the business,
was born in Montreal, January 7, 1870, and pursued his education
in this city. Making his initial step in the business world, he
was for four years with the house of George D. Ross & Company,
manufacturers’ agents, and in 1891 he joined his father in
organizing the firm and instituting the business of John Gordon
& Son. The establishment remains today as one of the foremost
wholesale dry-goods commission houses of Montreal, with trade
connections that lead to all provinces of the Dominion.

James R. Gordon was married to Miss Catherine McIntyre, and they
have three children, J. Archibald, J. Kenneth and Bruce McIntyre.
Mr. Gordon’s deep interest in the material development of the
city is indicated in his membership in the Board of Trade and the
Chambre de Commerce. He is also a member of St. James and other
clubs.


DAVID ROSS MCCORD.

The unusual gifts of ready wit and great culture of David Ross
McCord have made him a man of influence not only in the legal
profession but in connection with various important public events
and questions. Montreal numbers him among her native sons, his
birth having occurred in this city March 18, 1844. The ancestry
of the family in Canada is traced back to John McCord, who came
from Antrim, Ireland, during the early settlement of the province
of Quebec. The father of David R. McCord was the late Lieutenant
Colonel Hon. John Samuel McCord, who became a judge of the
superior court of Lower Canada and was recognized as one of the
distinguished jurists of his day. He married Anne, a daughter of
David Ross, an advocate of Montreal.

In the acquirement of his education David R. McCord attended
successively the Montreal high school, McGill University, which
conferred upon him the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1862 and the
degrees of Master of Arts and Bachelor of Civil Law in 1867; and
Bishop’s Collegiate University of Lennoxville, which conferred
upon him the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1864. In 1868 he was
called to the bar and entered at once upon active practice. In
1895 he was created king’s counselor by the Earl of Aberdeen.
From the outset of his professional career his advancement has
been continuous and long since he has reached a foremost position
among the advocates of Montreal. He finds ready and correct
solution for intricate and involved legal problems and possesses
rare analytical and inductive powers.

The question of public policy as set forth by the political
parties of the day are of deep interest to him and at one time he
was secretary of the Liberal-Conservative Association. For many
years he served as one of the aldermen of Montreal and exercised
his official prerogatives in support of various measures and
movements for the benefit and improvement of the city. In 1901
he advocated the appointment of a Canadian as governor general
of the Dominion. Aside from his interest in his profession and
the public questions of the day he has been a close student of
natural history and has formed at his residence the nucleus of
a natural museum. His religious faith is that of the Anglican
church. Today his opinions are accepted as authority upon all
matters relating to the annals of the country and of him the
Montreal Herald said: “He probably has a more intimate knowledge
of early Canadian history than any other man living.” His
studious habits have brought him familiarity with a wide range
of subjects, and his scholarly attainments have gained him place
among the respected and honored residents of Montreal.




INDEX


  Adami, J. G., 301

  Allan, Sir Hugh, 635

  Allan, Sir H. M., 660

  Allan, John, 295

  Almond, J. M., 215

  Ames, H. B., 618

  Angers, E.-R., 562

  Angus, D. F., 554

  Angus, R. B., 5

  Angus, W. F., 537

  Archambault, A. S., 418

  Archambault, J. B., 632

  Archambault, J. L., 19

  Archibald, J. S., 488

  Ardley, W. H., 151

  Arnton, J. J., 609

  Asselin, Joseph, 502

  Asselin, J. F. O., 501

  Asselin, N. H., 508

  Atherton, W. H., 648

  Avard, J. G., 489


  Badeaux, L. G., 505

  Badgley, J. C. N., 20

  Bagg Family, 406

  Barlow, J. R., 169

  Barron, R. H., 98

  Baudouin, Philibert, 37

  Beaudin, Simeon, 638

  Beaudoin, Louis, 368

  Beaudry, J. P., 355

  Becket, R. A., 216

  Bélanger, Leandre, 586

  Bell, James, 14

  Bennett, James, 422

  Benoit, D. A., 526

  Benson, G. F., 87

  Bernier, Charles, 620

  Berryer-Saint-Pierre, H. C., 550

  Biron, Edouard, 436

  Bissonnet, A. E. J., 479

  Black, C. M., 119

  Blaiklock, M. S., 139

  Bloomfield, Baruch, 314

  Bloomfield, Harry, 297

  Bolton, W. E., 80

  Bond, W. L., 216

  Bonin, J. A., 412

  Bourgault, J. A., 170

  Boyd, L. H., 465

  Boyer, Aurelien, 205

  Briggs, C. A., 156

  Brisset des Nos, Paul, 580

  Brodeur, Donat, 273

  Brophy, J. C., 398

  Brossard, Edmond, 358

  Brosseau, A. S., 523

  Brown, E. N., 620

  Brown, G. A., 31

  Browne, A. A., 266

  Browne, Fitz-James E., 579

  Browning, J. M., 144

  Buchan, J. S., 239

  Buchanan, A. W. P., 473

  Buller, Frank, 105

  Bulmer, T. C., 398

  Burke, David, 129

  Busby, Thomas, 566

  Byrd, Charles, 176


  Cahan, C. H., 585

  Cameron, A. G., 235

  Cameron, J. C., 506

  Campbell, A. H., 490

  Campbell, D. W., 279

  Campbell, F. W., 63

  Campbell, G. A., 434

  Campbell, M. A., 598

  Campbell, Rollo, 58

  Cantile, G. S., 559

  Cassils, A. M., 240

  Caverhill, George, 65

  Champagne, E. O., 590

  Chaput, Charles, 656

  Charbonneau, Napoleon, 517

  Charters, Frank, 174

  Chaussé, J. A., 373

  Chasse, Aime, 660

  Cholette, Edouard, 284

  Choquet, F. X., 594

  Cleghorn, J. P., 145

  Clouston, Sir E. S., 32

  Cohen, Hirsch, 296

  Cohen, Lyon, 624

  Cooke, J. P., 665

  Cotton, C. M., 92

  Cousineau, Philemon, 230

  Couture, J. A., 161

  Cramp, G. B., 188

  Creak, George, 380

  Creelman, J. J., 430

  Crépeau, F. G., 520

  Curran, J. J., 260

  Cushing, Dougall, 53


  Dale, J. A., 350

  Daly, George, 357

  Daoust, Maxime, 519

  David, L. O., 382

  Davidson, Thornton, 80

  Davis, H. W., 103

  Davis, M. B., 375

  Dawes, A. J., 192

  Dawson, T. J., 369

  Day, J. G., 387

  Decary, E. R., 242

  Decary, L. J. T., 310

  DeCew, J. A., 334

  Deguire, A. S., 606

  Delisle, Arthur, 98

  de Lorimier, A. E., 672

  de Martigny, R. L., 517

  Desautels, Oscar, 363

  Desbarats, G. E., 469

  Descarries, J. A., 38

  Desjardins, J. L., 296

  de Sola, Abraham, 69

  de Sola, C. I., 571

  Desroches, J. I., 493

  Dickson, Norval, 69

  Dillon, John, 164

  Dodds, W. O. H., 59

  Donnelly, J. E., 356

  Drouin, Joseph, 544

  Drummond, Sir G. A., 304

  Dubreuil, J. F., 180

  Duclos, C. A., 212

  Dufresne, A. B., 211

  Dupuis, J. N. O., 376

  Dupuis, L. N., 88

  Dupuis, P. L., 400

  Dupuis, Rosaire, 448

  Dussault, J. C. H., 241


  Ecrement, Arthur, 174

  Edgar, John, 252

  Eliott, G. O. R., 205

  Elliot, James, 158

  Elliott, H. J., 598

  Emard, J. U., 531

  Emery-Coderre, Joseph, 574

  England, F. R., 132

  Evans, W. N., 381

  Ewing, A. S., 131

  Ewing, S. H., 483

  Ewing, W. H., 421


  Findlay, W. E., 380

  Fineberg, Zigmond, 625

  Fontaine, D. A., 499

  Forbes, J. G. L., 478

  Forest, Alfred, 495

  Forget, L. J., 112

  Forget, Sir Rodolphe, 577

  Fortier, L. E., 662

  Fowler, Robert, 273

  Frigon, A. P., 286


  Gadbois-Van dan Daigue, Emilien, 532

  Gagnier, L. A., 556

  Gale, Samuel, 54

  Gauthier, Thomas, 538

  Geoffrion, Aime, 361

  Geoffrion, Amedee, 623

  Gibeault, Arthur, 525

  Giroux, Napoleon, 399

  Gohier, Edouard, 573

  Gohier, Remi, Sr., 418

  Gonthier, Georges, 100

  Gordon, C. B., 464

  Gordon, John, 678

  Gordon, J. A., 271

  Gordon, Nathan, 283

  Gouin, Sir Lomer, 583

  Gould, C. H., 272

  Grandbois, H. A. E., 252

  Gravel, J. O., 18

  Gravel, Ludger, 344

  Gray, H. R., 11

  Greene, David, 99

  Guerin, J. J. E., 130

  Guertin, C. A., 338

  Guimond, J. L. A., 97

  Guindon, J. M., 644

  Guy Family, 415

  Guyon, Louis, 42


  Hadrill, George, 43

  Hague, George, 322

  Hamilton, W. F., 83

  Hannaford, E. P., 439

  Hart, A. J., 111

  Hart, R. A. B., 111

  Harwood, C. A. de L., 668

  Hastings, George, 349

  Hastings, W. A., 93

  Hawksworth, Alfred, 403

  Hayes, C. A., 167

  Hays, C. M., 44

  Hébert, Albert, 484

  Hébert, C. P., 328

  Hébert, E. N., 233

  Hébert, René, 338

  Hébert, Zéphirin, 364

  Heffernan, T. F., 562

  Henderson, L. L., 285

  Henry, A. C., 86

  Henshaw, H. H., 379

  Heward, E. H., 666

  Hibbard, F. W., 198

  Hickson, Sir Joseph, 614

  Hill, C. G., 254

  Hingston, Sir W. H., 641

  Hogan, Henry, 152

  Holgate, Henry, 555

  Hope, W. H., 223

  Hopper, R. T., 428

  Hunt, T. S., 194

  Hurtubise, Gabriel, 187

  Hutchison, A. C., 274


  Inglis, R. J., 463


  Jamieson, R. C., 440

  Johnston, James, 12


  Kavanagh, A. O., 446

  Kavanagh, Walter, 393


  La Badie, J. A. O., 524

  Labelle, A. E. D., 416

  Lacasse, N. U., 104

  Lacasse, P.-C., 265

  Lachapelle, E. P., 182

  Ladouceur, B. N., 245

  Lafontaine, Adrien, 387

  Lamarche, J. P., 613

  Latour, L. D., 280

  Laurendeau, Charles, 512

  Learmont, J. B., 218

  Leclerc, C. E., 64

  Leduc, F. G., 319

  Legare, J. B. D., 268

  Letourneau, Severin, 345

  Lighthall, W. D., 542

  Linton, Robert, 445

  Loranger, L. J., 393

  Loranger, L. O., 589

  Lovell, R. K., 59

  Lyall, Peter, 210

  Lyman, Charles, 560


  McArthur, Colin, 466

  McCaskill, D. A., 480

  McConnell, J. B., 298

  McCord, D. R., 681

  McDonald, Duncan, 613

  McDougall, Thomas, 267

  McKenna, James, 428

  McKenna, Patrick, 424

  McShane, G. F. J., 567

  McShane, James, 631

  Macaulay, T. B., 405

  MacCallum, D. C., 411

  Macdonald, J. K., 441

  MacDougall, D. L., 417

  MacDougall, G. C., 240

  Macfarlane, Lawrence, 362

  Mackay, Hugh, 289

  MacMahon, T. J., 332

  Maguire, C. H., 392

  Mann, J. A., 530

  Manson, A. C., 331

  Marechal, L. T., 502

  Martin, J. E., 167

  Martin, R. D., 94

  Martineau, J. F. V., 430

  Mathieu, Michel, 84

  Matthews, G. H., 126

  Maxwell, W. S., 340

  Mayrand, Georges, 566

  Meighen, Robert, 74

  Melancon, Bernard, 187

  Mercier, Honore, Jr., 494

  Mercier, Honore, 544

  Mercier, P. E., 604

  Michaud, Alexander, 140

  Michaud, J. L., 529

  Michaud, J. W., 530

  Miles, Henry, 388

  Mitchell, John, 313

  Mitchell, V. E., 150

  Monette, G. A., 518

  Morgan, F. C., 637

  Morgan, Henry & Co., Ltd., 629

  Morgan, James, 605

  Montgomery, G. H. A., 352

  Monty, Rodolphe, 303

  Morin, Victor, 248

  Morrice, David, 179

  Moyse, C. E., 321

  Mullin, Patrick, 447

  Mullin, R. T., 511

  Mussen, Thomas, 209


  Nicholls, A. G., 125


  O’Connor, James, 224

  Ogden, I. G., 584

  Ogilvie, W. W., 106

  O’Meara, William, 367

  Orr-Lewis, Frederic, 561

  Ouimet, J. A., 199

  Ouimet, Seraphin, 410


  Patenaude, E. L., 488

  Paterson, William, 496

  Paterson, W. S., 356

  Paton, James, 514

  Patterson, William, 647

  Perham, L. D., 424

  Phillips, C. S. J., 234

  Phillips, Thomas, 434

  Phillips, Thomas, Jr., 422

  Piché, J. G., 487

  Pigeon, R. A. J., 376

  Pillow, H. W., 609

  Pillow, J. A., 157

  Pratt, John, 120

  Prefontaine, Isaie, 60

  Préfontaine, Raymond, 651

  Prendergast, W. J., 435

  Pringle, Thomas, 191


  Rainville, J. H., 535

  Rankin, John, 181

  Reford, Robert, 134

  Reynolds, M. M., 156

  Richer, A. J., 599

  Rielle, Joseph, 236

  Rinfret, Thibaudeau, 568

  Riordon, Carl, 284

  Ritchie, T. W., 124

  Rivet, L. A. A., 370

  Robb, Thomas, 259

  Robertson, Andrew, 474

  Robertson, Farquhar, 292

  Robertson, William, 327

  Robichon, X. A., 610

  Roddick, Sir T. G., 316

  Rodier, C. S., 85

  Rogers, D. B., 391

  Rondeau, A. O., 290

  Rosenberg, Carl, 246

  Ross, James, 22

  Ross, J. G., 206

  Routh, C. H., 346

  Roy, F. X., 103

  Roy, Henri, 343

  Roy, R. J., 91

  Rutherford, William, 245


  St. Jacques, J. L., 346

  St. Julien, J. A., 512

  Sammett, M. A., 626

  Scott, Gilbert, 235

  Seath, David, 671

  Shanks, W. R. L., 31

  Shatford, A. P., 247

  Shepherd, R. W., 333

  Ship, Fischel, 337

  Skinner, W. W., 259

  Smith, C. F., 200

  Smith, D. A., Lord Strathcona, 448

  Smith, William, 170

  Starkey, T. A., 655

  Stephens, G. W., 146

  Stevenson, S. C., 291

  Stewart, A. D., 313

  Strathy, J. A. L., 168

  Surveyer, Arthur, 500

  Surveyer, E. F., 536

  Surveyer, L. J. A., 66

  Symonds, Herbert, 151


  Taylor, R. B., 667

  Tellier, Louis, 597

  Tessier, Camille, 253

  Thomas, F. W., 394

  Thompson, F. E., 320

  Thompson, F. W., 221

  Tremblay, Joseph, 600


  Vanier, J. E., 400

  Venne, Joseph, 508

  Versailles, Joseph, 423

  Villeneuve, J. O., 162

  Villeneuve, Leonidas, 8

  Vineberg, Harris, 227


  Walker, H. E., 217

  Walsh, M. J., 13

  Ward, J. K., 643

  White, W. J., 133

  Whitehead, E. A., 442

  Whyte, W. H., 513

  Wilson, Daniel, 173

  Wilson, J. T., 175

  Wray, J. C., 362


  Young, John, 675




Transcriber’s Notes:


Each illustration page was followed by a blank page, both of
which were numbered. These are the sources of the apparently
missing pages. No pages are actually missing. Some illustrations
have been moved a page or two forward or backward to co-locate
them with the appropriate biography, or to remove them from the
middle of a paragraph.

Commas and periods missed by either the printer or the scanning
process were added. Commas and periods interchanged by the
printer were corrected.

Several proper names, printed inconsistently, were made
consistent:

  Francois, Francoise, Francais and Francais were normalized to
  François, Françoise, Français and Française

  Pointe aux Trembles was normalized to Pointe-aux-Trembles.

  Lotbinere and Lotbiniére were normalized to Lotbinière.

Accents on other proper names were are unchanged from the
original.

Smallpox and small-pox were inconsistently hyphenated in multiple
places and so were left as printed.

Accents and other diacritical marks do not appear over or under
capital letters, and were not added.

Some words which appear incorrect today have been acceptable
spellings in the past. These words (e.g. employe, malster,
Hainout, Scotish, threshhold, etc.) were left as printed. Words
which are rendered with more typically French spelling, such as
“interne” reflect the significant French influence on the English
of the time and place and are therefore not corrected to standard
English spellings. Similarly, accents on French words used in
English text are very frequently omitted, and they have not been
added except as noted below.

Capitalization of the words “street”,“place”,“lane” and “avenue”,
when part of proper names was inconsistent, and corrected. Other
proper names lacking capitalization were corrected.

The following proper names are probably incorrect, but as that is
not certain, they are unchanged:

  On page 280, Latour dit Dufour is probably Dufour dit Latour

  On page 394, Moorwinstow is probably Morwenstow

  On page 484, LsRaoul de Lorimer is probably Louis-Raoul de Lorimer

  On page 598, Port Elain is probably Port Elgin

  On pages 531-532, Hon. J. Ald Ouimet is probably Hon. J. Alderic
  Ouimet.

There are several places where words appear to be missing.
They were added only when the missing word was certain and are
included in the following list of corrected printer’s errors.

  “mediaeval” was changed to “mediæval” on page 69 to match other
  instances in the volume (during those mediæval times)

  “over-estimated” changed to “overestimated” on page 73 to match
  other instances in the volume (could scarcely be overestimated)

  “broadmindedness” changed to “broad-mindedness” on page 84 (from
  a deficiency in that broad-mindedness)

  “whch” changed to “which” on page 91 (from which he was graduated)

  “Portoria” changed to “Portora” on page 99 (the Royal School of
  Portora)

  “Canado” changed to “Canada” on page 100 (Canada-French Trade
  Development Committee)

  “Societe” changed to “Société” on page 104 (La Société St. Jean
  Baptiste)

  “opthalmologists” changed to “ophthalmologists” and
  “opthalmoscopy” changed to “ophthalmoscopy” on page 105 ( one of
  the most celebrated ophthalmologists; method of ophthalmoscopy;
  He was the first ophthalmologist)

  “enthusiam” changed to “enthusiasm” on page 116 (His greatest
  enthusiasm was aroused)

  “became” changed to “become” on page 130 (he has also become
  equally widely known)

  “reelcted” changed to “reelected” on page 130 (and was reelected
  in 1896 and 1897)

  “eun” changed to “eund” on page 132 (ad eund)

  “Quarreau” changed to “Ouareau” on page 150 ( the Charlemagne &
  Lac Ouareau Lumber Company)

  “researth” changed to “research” on page 194 (his original
  research work was published)

  “far” changed to “for” on page 230 (who for a number of years)

  “wholsale” changed to “wholesale” on page 240 (a wholesale
  leather merchant)

  “Batallion” changed to “Battalion” on page 266 (Eighty-third
  Battalion of Infantry)

  “McCallum” changed to “MacCallum” on page 266 (Professor Duncan
  MacCallum)

  “Assocation” changed to “Association” on page 272 (American
  Library Association)

  “Christ’s” changed to “Christ” on page 273 (Christ Church
  Cathedral)

  “vangaurd” changed to “vanguard” on page 301 (He keeps in the
  vanguard)

  “Baptist” changed to “Baptiste” on page 310 (son of Jean Baptiste
  and Marie Theolinde)

  “boom” changed to “bloom” on page 315 (freshness and bloom of
  life)

  “discernable” changed to “discernible” on page 324 (are easily discernible)

  “physicain” changed to “physician” on page 338 (superintendent of
  St. Paul’s Hospital, physician to)

  “Hebert” changed to “Hébert” on page 340 (of which Philip Hébert
  was the sculptor)

  “Beauprè” changed to “Beaupré” on page 358 (the Preparatory
  College at Ste. Anne de Beaupré)

  “Therese” changed to “Thérèse” on page 367 (the College of Ste.
  Thérèse)

  “come” changed to “came” on page 367 (In the latter year he came
  to St. Gabriel’s)

  “Featherstonehough” changed to “Fetherstonhaugh” on page 376
  (Fetherstonhaugh, Dennison & Blackmore)

  “Clerge” changed to “Clergé” on page 385 (Le Clergé Canadien)

  “Boisbrand” changed to “Boisbriand” on page 392 (The Glade,
  Boisbriand, province of Quebec)

  “it” changed to “at” on page 418 (pursued his education at St.
  Hyacinthe College)

  duplicate word “of” removed from page 428 (on the 12th of July)

  “stateman” changed to “statesman” on page 458 (he was not a
  statesman)

  “shorts” changed to “short” on page 462 (A few short hours of
  frozen day)

  missing word “in” added on page 466 (and died in 1902)

  “Avocatau” changed to “avocat au” on page 469 (Avocat au
  Parlement)

  “colonal” changed to “colonel” on page 470 (lieutenant colonel of
  militia)

  “sucessful” changed to “successful” on page 472 (made his life
  brilliantly successful)

  “professionl” changed to “professional” on page 512 (concentrate
  his energies upon his professional interests)

  “Abbe” changed to “Abbé” on page 531 (a private school conducted
  by Abbé Villeneuve)

  “to day” changed to “today” on page 553 (Shortis is today
  detained)

  “non-essential” changed to “nonessential” on page 555 to match
  other instances in the volume (essential and the nonessential)

  “non-sectarian” changed to “nonsectarian” on page 556 to match
  other instances in the volume (nonsectarian in his religious belief)

  “Brown’s” changed to “Browne’s” on page 579 (Mr. Browne’s
  advertising measures)

  “ninteenth” changed to “nineteenth” on page 589 (the later half
  of the nineteenth century)

  “Eteves” changed to “Elèves” on page 605 (Association des Anciens
  Elèves de L’Ecole Polytechnique)

  “cloest” changed to “closest” on page 605 (will bear the closest
  investigation and scrutiny)

  “farreaching” changed to “far-reaching” on page 605 (of
  far-reaching importance)

  “gardner” changed to “gardener” on page 606 (The father was a
  gardener by profession.)

  “beneficient” changed to “beneficent” on page 606 (extend to many
  beneficent projects)

  extra character “a” removed from page 614 (He left that
  corporation to accept)

  “Lafontain” changed to “Lafontaine” on page 618 (Lafontaine Club)

  “repesentative” changed to “representative” on page 618 (a
  representative of that corporation)

  “beneficient” changed to “beneficent” on page 626 (the beneficent
  spirit)

  “tome” changed to “come” on page 630 (have come to include)

  “eqully” changed to “equally” on page 635 (was almost equally
  well known)

  “opportunties” changed to “opportunities” on page 637 (Liberal
  educational opportunties)

  “sumitted” changed to “submitted” on page 643 (questions which
  were submitted for consideration)

  “Ecolé” changed to “Ecole” on page 651 (Ecole des Hautes Etudes
  Commerciales)

  “Monteral” changed to “Montreal” on page 652 (progress of
  Montreal was slow)

  “Subsequetly” changed to “Subsequently” on page 655 (Subsequently
  he pursued)

  “succcess” changed to “success” on page 665 (and win success)

  “distingnuished” changed to “distinguished” on page 667 (such
  distinguished men as Lord Strathcona)

  “he” changed to “the” on page 677 (where the bridge should be
  built)

  “Champlin” changed to “Champlain” on page 677 (Lake Champlain)

Angus, R. B. added to the Index.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Montreal from 1535 to 1914, by Anonymous

